GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE.
WELCOME TO THE FEBRUARY 18
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION INDIVISIBLE
WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR
ALL WHAT CLARK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL?
NO NO DEAR HERE COMES HERE
HARRISON HERE.
THAT'S WHERE WATSON HERE COMES
FROM.
ALEX HERE COMES DENHA HERE
COMES WORK THE ODD ONE HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE WE'RE HERE
HERE AND HERE COMES FROM BRIGS
HERE COUNCILMAN CORNELL HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM IN THE MOTION.
>> PLEASE APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER KERNELL
SCANBUY KRIMMER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
.
COUNCILOR WATSON.
SO I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO APPROVE
THE PROPOSED ITEM TO BE ADDED
TO THE AGENDA A RESOLUTION TO
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THE
ISSUANCE OF A DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT LIQUOR
LICENSE TO RESUS CAFE LLC WHERE
CU PERHAPS IS THAT THE COUNCIL
ITEM DC FOR IT?
OH SURE YES.
PERFECT.
IT'S YOUR SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR DENHA DISCUSSION IN
FAVOR OF THAT AMENDMENT OPPOSE
THE AMENDMENTS APPROVED FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA AS
AMENDED IN FAVOR POSED THE
AGENDA AS AMENDED IS APPROVED.
DID WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY
I'M SORRY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR?
NO MAYOR BUT WE DO HAVE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM THE
ENTIRE AREA TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY WELCOME.
>> GOOD EVENING.
JEFF PHIFER WITH THE
ANNIVERSARY OF TRANSPORATION
THREE.
WE REALLY APPRECIATE YOU HAVING
ME HERE THIS EVENING.
JUST HAD A FEW UPDATES TO SHARE
WITH COUNSEL.
FIRST OF WHICH FEBRUARY 4TH
MARK TRANSIT EQUITY DAY ACROSS
THE UNITED STATES THIS YEAR WAS
A PARTICULARLY SPECIAL MARKED
THE SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
MONTGOMERY BUS BOYCOTT
OBVIOUSLY SPARKED BY ROSA PARKS
COURAGEOUS ACTIONS WE TYPICALLY
CELEBRATE EACH YEAR THIS YEAR
WAS A LITTLE EXTRA SPECIAL TO
HONOR MISS PARKS.
WE DISPLAYED BUS CARDS ABOVE
THE WINDOWS ON EACH OF OUR
BUSSES AND OUR FLEET IN THE
DAYS LEADING UP TO FEBRUARY
FOURTH AND THEN ON FEBRUARY 4TH
A PLACE TO HONOR OUR RESERVE
PLACARD ON ONE SEAT PER BUS TO
HONOR ROSA PARKS AND HER LEGACY
NOT ONLY PUBLIC TRANSIT BUT THE
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT AS NEXT
UPDATE DID HOW FUEL IS OUR LOW
NO GRANT AWARD MANY YOU
REMEMBER THE RIDE WAS AWARDED A
TWENTY FIVE MILLION GRANT BACK
IN JULY TO BE USED TO PURCHASE
HYBRID BUSSES AS WELL AS A
HYDROGEN PILOT PROGRAM.
JUST AS AN UPDATE TO WHERE THAT
PROCESS CURRENTLY AWAITING THE
APPLICATION PROCESS CONGRESS
HAS APPROPRIATED THE FUNDS BUT
WE STILL NEED TO GET THEM
OBLIGATED.
THE FUNDS WERE APPROPRIATED
UNDER THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION
AS WAS THE AWARD GIVEN UNDER BY
THE ADMINISTRATION SINCE THEN
OBVIOUSLY BEEN AN
ADMINISTRATION CHANGE SLEW
OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS AND
DIRECTIVES.
SO WE ARE MORE OR LESS IN A
WAITING PERIOD ON THAT.
WE'RE STILL OPTIMISTIC THAT
THOSE FUNDS WILL GET OBLIGATED
BUT WILL BE SURE TO UPDATE YOU
ALL AS THAT PROGRESSES AND LESS
UPDATE.
I HAD AS MANY YOU KNOW THE
GETDOWN HOME PROGRAM WHICH IS A
COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE RIGHT
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THE DENHA
ANNUAL KOKA.
THE WHOLE PROGRAM DESIGNED TO
GET FOLKS TO TAKE PUBLIC
TRANSIT DURING THE WINTER
MONTHS.
IT STEMS FROM JANUARY 20TH TO
FEBRUARY 20TH.
SO IT IS WRAPPING UP
HERE.
I JUST WANT TO SHARE A COUPLE
OF STATISTICS ON THAT.
SO SINCE JANUARY 20TH OVER
THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY PEOPLE
HAVE TAKEN AT LEAST ONE GREEN
TRIP MEANING EITHER PUBLIC
TRANSIT, WALKING, BIKING ETC.
WITH THESE TRIPS THEY HAVE
PREVENTED OVER TWENTY FIVE TONS
OF CO2 EMISSIONS AND REDUCED TO
VMT OR VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
BY FIFTY EIGHT THOUSAND.
SO REALLY GREAT.
WE HAD A REALLY GREAT TURNOUT
THIS YEAR AND HOPEFULLY HAVE A
STRONG FINISH THE NEXT COUPLE
OF DAYS.
LASTLY I JUST WANTED TO GIVE A
SHOUT OUT TO TEAMS FROM WARD
FOUR AND FIVE WHO HAVE LOGGED
OVER FIVE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
GREEN TRIPS.
I'M HEARING THERE'S A LITTLE
BIT OF COMPETITION GOING ON
TOWARDS THE END BUT THOSE ARE
THE UPDATES I HAVE FOR YOU THIS
EVENING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC AND
RESERVE TIME, PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN
THE COMMUNITY THAT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS OF REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR OUR FIRST SPEAKER
TODAY IS POURNELLE MCARTOR.
GOOD EVENING.
I WANT TO ASK FOR YOU TO PLEASE
SUPPORT THE ONGOING EFFORTS
TOWARDS HAVING A PUBLIC
ELECTRIC UTILITY HERE FOR ANN
ARBOR.
I WANT TO THANK THE MAYOR FOR
PUTTING TOGETHER A PLAN FOR
PUTTING IT ON THE BALLOT NEXT
YEAR AFTER EVALUATION STUDY
THAT WILL ALLOW US TO HAVE A
CLEAR IDEA OF HOW MUCH THE
INFRASTRUCTURE COST SO THAT IN
NEGOTIATIONS AN ARBITRATION
WITH DTT WE CAN MOVE THAT STEP
FORWARD FOR ME WHEN IT COMES TO
THE ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
HEALTH THE FIGHT IS PERSONAL.
I HAVE ASTHMA AND I HAVE KNOWN
PERSONALLY HOW POLLUTION
SPECIFICALLY IN MY CASE AIR
POLLUTION CAN AFFECT MY HEALTH
AND I KNOW THAT DTT IS NOT
SERIOUS ABOUT MOVING AWAY FROM
POLLUTING FORMS OF ENERGY.
THEY CONTINUE TO RELY ON GAS
THAT IS THEIR PLAN FOR DECADES
TO COME.
MEANWHILE ON THE YALE WEBSITE
THEY NOTE THAT SINCE TWENTY
FOURTEEN COMPENDIUM BY THE
PHYSICIANS FOR SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY AND CONCERNED
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS OF NEW
YORK HAS TALLIED TWO THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED THIRTY NINE PEER
REVIEWED PAPERS THAT FOUND
EVIDENCE OF HARM FROM FROM
FRACKING WITH NEARLY ONE
THOUSAND OF THOSE PAPERS
PUBLISHED SINCE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN.
AND THIS IS A THIS IS AN
ARTICLE IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO SO
I'M SURE THERE HAS BEEN MORE
STUDY SINCE THEN.
THEY ALSO NOTICED THAT A PAPER
BY THE YALE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC
HEALTH THAT SUMMER SHOWED THAT
CHILDREN LIVING NEAR
PENNSYLVANIA WELLS THAT USE
FRACKING TO HARVEST NATURAL GAS
ARE TWO TO THREE TIMES MORE
LIKELY TO CONTRACT A FORM
OF CHILDHOOD LEUKEMIA THAN
THEIR PEERS WHO LIVE FARTHER
AWAY AND THEN EVEN TAKING A
STEP BACK FROM ENVIRONMENTAL
AND PUBLIC HEALTH ISSUES WE SEE
RIGHT NOW AT A NATIONAL LEVEL
SOME OF THE MOST EXTREME FORMS
OF OLIGARCHY AND I BELIEVE THAT
HERE AT THE LOCAL LEVEL WE HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO FIGHT BACK
AGAINST CORPORATE OLIGARCHY IN
THE FORM DTES HOLD ON OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO I ASK THAT WHEN THE TIME
COMES THAT YOU PLEASE VOTE FOR
THESE PROPOSALS AND MOVE THE
BALL FORWARD FOR DECADES TO
COME FOR A BETTER FUTURE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON
DEMCHAK
, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF
OF ONLINE BRANDON DEMCHUK.
>> HI THIS IS BRANDON JEFF FROM
WEST.
VERY TIGHT KNIT WORD FOR IT.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE
MEMBERS ACKMANN, CORNELL AND
BRIGGS FOR BRINGING DC THREE
FORWARD.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST YOU ALL
VOTE IN FAVOR OF IT TONIGHT AS
SOME OF YOU PROBABLY KNOW, I
RIDE MY BIKE AROUND TOWN A LOT
FOR COMMUTING ERRANDS AND
RECREATIONALLY.
I FREQUENTLY ENCOUNTER
OBSTRUCTED BIKE LANES
PARTICULARLY PACARD AND I'VE
HAD A COUPLE OF CLOSE CALLS
OVER THE YEARS WITH DRIVERS
PASSING DANGEROUSLY CLOSE TO ME
WHILE I'M TRYING TO AVOID A
TRASH CAN OR AN ILLEGALLY
PARKED VEHICLE, BETTER ROADWAY
DESIGN CAN HELP REDUCE
OBSTACLES SUBSTANTIAL OF THE
PROTECTED LANES ARE BLOCKED WAY
LESS FREQUENTLY THAN THE LANES
ARE.
STUDIES ALSO CONSISTENTLY SHOW
THAT PROTECTED AND DELINEATED
BICYCLE INFRASTRUCTURE MAKES
THE ROADS SAFER FOR ALL USERS,
INCLUDING DRIVERS.
WE SHOULD ACCELERATE QUICK
BUILDS AND OTHER PROJECTS THAT
GET PHYSICAL BARRIERS BETWEEN
CARS AND VULNERABLE ROAD USERS.
ARE WE BEING OUTDONE BY OTHER
PEER CITIES?
AND WE NEED TO PICK UP THE PACE
AT FULFILLING OUR COMMITMENT TO
BUILD FULLY CONNECTED ALL AGES
AND ABILITIES BICYCLE
INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGHOUT THE
CITY.
BUT DESIGN CAN ONLY GET US SO
FAR DESPITE AN ENORMOUS
PERCENTAGE OF PUBLIC SPACE IN
OUR CITY BEING DEDICATED TO
CARS, DRIVERS MANAGED TO FORCE
THEIR WAY INTO THE LEFTOVER
SPACES THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
RESERVED FOR PEDESTRIANS AND
CYCLISTS.
WE ALL KNOW THAT PEOPLE WHO
PARK IN THE DIVISION CYCLE
TRACK KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING
IS WRONG AND CHOOSE TO DO IT
ANYWAYS ENDANGERING ME AND MY
FRIENDS PROCESS THE CURRENT
SYSTEM OF REPORTING VIOLATIONS
IS SIMPLY NOT WORKING.
IT'S RARE THAT COMMUNITIES
SANDERS RESPONDS QUICKLY ENOUGH
TO TAKE ON A VEHICLE I DOUBT
FREQUENT OFFENDERS LIKE AMAZON
DELIVERY CHECKS WHICH I
FREQUENTLY DODGE ON PACARD HAVE
EVER GOTTEN TICKETED IF THEY'RE
ONLY THERE LONG ENOUGH TO BLOCK
A COUPLE OF BIKES BEFORE MOVING
ALONG TO BLOCK SOME BIKES UP
THE ROAD WITH IT OFF AS THE
BIKE LANE AND THE BIKE LANE I
MEAN BETWEEN TAPPET OR MADISON
MIGHT AS WELL BE FIFTEEN TO
PARKING BECAUSE THERE'S ALWAYS
A CAR THAT EVERY TIME I GO BY
EVERY TIME THAT HAPPENS THERE'S
INCREASED RISK OF A CONFLICT
BETWEEN A DRIVER AND A CYCLIST
THAT COULD END UP SOMEONE
INJURED OR DEAD , SOME SORT
OF PROACTIVE ENFORCEMENT AS I
SAY, I CERTAINLY DON'T KNOW THE
ANSWERS BUT WE ABSOLUTELY HAVE
A SAFETY PROBLEM HERE.
I HOPE THIS RESOLUTION WILL GET
US A STEP CLOSER TO SOLVING
THAT PROBLEM.
>> PLEASE SUPPORT IT TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRIAN
GUMBINGER COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS BRIAN GEHRINGER.
I AM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF ANN ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER
OVER THE PAST FEW WEEKS HP TOO
HAS FOR THE FIRST TIME OPENED
UP THE FUTURE OF THIS CAMPAIGN
TO ITS EVER GROWING MEMBERSHIP
MYSELF AND MANY PEOPLE IN THIS
ROOM WATCHING FROM HOME VOTED
ON WHETHER OR NOT TO ENDORSE
THE PLAN FOR PUBLIC POWER
ENCAPSULATED BY THE TWO
RESOLUTIONS.
BEFORE YOU TODAY I WANT TO
THANK EVERY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
ALLOWING THE PEOPLE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A SAY IN
THIS FUTURE.
I WANT TO ESPECIALLY THANK
MAYOR TAYLOR FOR PRESENTING HIS
VISION OF HOW THE CITY COULD
MOVE FORWARD AT OUR RECENT TOWN
HALL AND ENDURING A SKEPTICAL
AUDIENCE WITH KNOWLEDGE AND
GRACE, THE PEOPLE DECIDED TO
MOVE BOLDLY FORWARD WITH THE
PLAN FOR YOU.
WE STAND ON THE PRECIPICE OF A
MOVEMENT ONE THAT WILL NOT BE
INTIMIDATED BY THE LOCAL
OLIGARCHS KNOWN AS ENERGY.
HE HAS BEEN WORKING FURIOUSLY
TO OPEN UP NEW LANES IN THEIR
ANTISCIENCE SCIENCE PROPAGANDA
CAMPAIGN AGAINST AN ARBOR'S
PROSPEROUS DEMOCRATIC ENERGY
FUTURE.
DETI HAS RELEASED A STUDY
WRITTEN BY PERHAPS THE MOST
INFAMOUS PROPAGANDIST FOR BIG
OIL CHARLES RIVER ASSOCIATES
JOINING THE POISONOUS LEGACY
OF EXXON, SHELL AND BRITISH
PETROLEUM AND ATTEMPTS TO FOOL
THE PEOPLE OF THIS WORLD INTO
APPLAUDING THE HANDS THAT CHOKE
THEM HAS LAUNCHED A COMMUNITY
RELATIONS PROGRAM AND BOMBARDED
AN ARBITRATES WITH MAILERS AND
ADS ATTEMPTING TO SCARE US BACK
INTO THEIR GAPING MOM.
THEY HAVE OF COURSE DONE ALL
OF THIS WITH OUR MONEY.
NEEDLESS TO SAY, THIS BARRAGE
OF PROPAGANDA FROM DTG WOULD
NOT BE NECESSARY IF THEY WERE
INDEED THE RELIABLE FISCALLY
RESPONSIBLE RENEWABLE ENERGY
PROVIDERS THEY CLAIMED TO BE.
I AM SURE ALL OF YOU HAVE
RECEIVED COMMUNICATIONS FROM
CONSTITUENTS CONCERNED ABOUT
THE ONE POINT SEVEN DOLLARS
MILLION PRICE TAG OF THE SECOND
FEASIBILITY STUDY.
SOME OF YOU HAVE EVEN
QUESTIONED YOUR ENTIRE STANCE
ON PUBLIC POWER BECAUSE OF THAT
PRICE TAG.
BUT IT IS YOUR JOB TO BE A
STEWARD OF THE TRUTH.
THE TRUTH IS THAT THAT PRICE
TAG IS HIGH BUT THE TRUTH IS
ALSO THAT THIS STUDY IF IT
DOESN'T HAPPEN NOW, IT COULD
CAUSE A TWO YEAR DELAY TO
PUBLIC POWER IN ANN ARBOR AND
IN THOSE TWO YEARS AND ARBOR
WILL PAY ABOUT FORTY SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS TO SHAREHOLDERS
ALONE.
THAT'S TWENTY EIGHT TIMES THE
COST OF THE STUDY.
THE TRUTH IS THAT IF ANN ARBOR
HAD BEEN PAYING THE RATES
OF CHELSEA'S PUBLIC POWER OVER
THE LAST TWENTY FIVE YEARS, WE
WOULD HAVE SAVED EIGHT HUNDRED
AND FOURTEEN MILLION DOLLARS.
THE TRUTH IS THAT EVERY SINGLE
PUBLIC ELECTRIC UTILITY IN
MICHIGAN PAYS LOWER RATES THAN
DTE.
SO IT IS YOUR JOB TO MAKE YOUR
CONSTITUENTS UNDERSTAND THE
WHOLE PICTURE HERE AND NOT JUST
ONE PRICE TAG?
I THINK THE TRUTH IS THAT ANN
ARBOR IS READY FOR PUBLIC POWER
AND ANN ARBOR WILL MAKE PUBLIC
POWER HAPPEN SO THANK YOU ALL
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
KEVIN BUNSON, MAYORS CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ASK YOU TODAY I
STAND TO MAKE TWO KEY POINTS
ONE IN SUPPORT OF THE
PROCUREMENT OF INDEPENDENT
PROFESSIONAL ADVICE TO ASSESS
OUR COMMUNITIES POSITION
REGARDING SUSTAINABLE ENERGY.
SECOND, A MEASURED AND CAUTIOUS
CONCERN FOR PREMATURELY
PREPARING A BALLOT INITIATIVE
FOR MUNICIPAL IZATION BEFORE WE
FULLY UNDERSTAND THE FACTS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM SAID
CONSULTANTS, WE PLAN ON HIRING
THROUGHOUT MY THREE DECADES
OF LEADERSHIP, PUBLIC SERVICE
AND POLICYMAKING AT THE LOCAL,
STATE AND FEDERAL LEVEL.
I LEARNED THE IMPORTANCE
OF CAREFUL PLANNING AND
EXECUTION A PRINCIPLE I'VE
OFTEN OBSERVED UNFORTUNATELY IN
ITS NEGATIVE FORM IS READY
SHOOT AIM.
>> I BELIEVE THIS MATTER IS
HIGHLY RELEVANT TO THE
PROPOSALS UNDER CONSIDERATION.
OUR COMMUNITY IS READY TO
FURTHER EXPLORE AND SUPPORT
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY OPTIONS.
IN FACT WE ARE ALREADY DOING
IT.
WE SHARE A COMMITMENT TO
ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS,
STEWARDSHIP AND EQUITY
PARTICULARLY GIVEN THE
OBSERVABLE IMPACTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE.
THE
SUCCESSFUL ESTABLISHMENT
OF AN OPT IN SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY DEMONSTRATES OUR VALUES
PASSED IN NOVEMBER.
HOWEVER, MY CONCERN IS THAT WE
ALREADY SHOOTING TOWARD
MUNICIPAL MUNICIPAL
EQUALIZATION WITHOUT ADEQUATELY
ASSESSING THE LANDSCAPE.
THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT DECISION
WITH FAR REACHING CONSEQUENCES.
THE ESTIMATED INVESTMENT TO
ACQUIRE DTES ASSETS IS
SUBSTANTIAL POTENTIALLY
EXCEEDING ONE BILLION DOLLARS.
THE FINANCIAL RISK FOR ONGOING
MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS
WOULD FALL ON OUR RATEPAYERS.
FURTHERMORE, WE MUST CAREFULLY
CONSIDER THE BROADER
IMPLICATIONS OF SUCH A MOVE
BOTH WITHIN ANN ARBOR AND
BEYOND INSTEAD OF DEMONSTRATING
DUE DILIGENCE AND CAREFUL
CONSIDERATION, A RUSH TO
EXPLORING A BALLOT INITIATIVE
RISKS THE CREATION OF FURTHER
DIVISION AND HINDERING
HINDERING COLLABORATIVE
DISCUSSIONS.
WE HAVE SEEN EXAMPLES AT THE
NATIONAL LEVEL JUST IN THE PAST
FEW WEEKS WHERE ELECTED
OFFICIALS AND NEW APPOINTEES
DISREGARD EXPERT ADVICE AND
PURSUIT OF ILL CONCEIVED
ACTIONS.
WE MUST AVOID A SIMILAR PATH
HERE IN ANN ARBOR EXPLORING THE
LOGISTICS AND LANGUAGE FOR A
BALLOT INITIATIVE BEFORE
RECEIVING THE RESULTS OF AN
INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT'S
ANALYSIS IS PREMATURE,
IMPRUDENT AND QUITE FRANKLY
DISINGENUOUS.
WHILE THE ENTHUSIASM AND
POLITICAL MOTIVATIONS ARE
UNDERSTANDABLE, THEY MUST NOT
OUTWEIGH FINANCIAL REALITIES
AND PRACTICAL SOLUTIONS.
I URGE THE COUNCIL TO
PRIORITIZE CAREFUL AMING.
LET US BE GUIDED BY SUBJECT
MATTER EXPERTS AND
PROFESSIONALS BEFORE
DETERMINING ANY POTENTIAL NEXT
STEPS TOWARD SUSTAINABILITY.
WE MIGHT FIND THAT OUR
RESOURCES ARE BETTER INVEST IN
ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES.
A THOROUGH AND INFORMED
APPROACH WILL ULTIMATELY BEST
SERVE THE INTERESTS OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GREG
WOODRING.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
CITY COUNCIL I GREG WOODRING,
THE PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR FOR
PUBLIC POWER AND I'M ALSO HERE
TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO VOTE YES ON
THE PROPOSALS PUT IN FRONT
OF YOU.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE WILL BE
LIKELY A DELAY WHILE SOME
OF THE DETAILS ARE FIGURED OUT
.
HOWEVER, WE HOPE THAT YOU WILL
MOVE FORWARD WITH THESE
PROPOSALS.
IT'S NO QUESTION THAT WE ARE
DEALING WITH AN UNFOLDING
CRISIS AT THE NATIONAL LEVEL.
WE ARE IN NEW UNCHARTED
TERRITORY HERE WITH THIS
CURRENT ADMINISTRATOR AND
HOWEVER IN MANY WAYS THIS IS
NOTHING NEW.
WE'VE WATCHED FOR DECADES NOW
AS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS
NEGLECTED AND ABDICATED ITS
RESPONSIBILITY TO ADDRESS THE
CLIMATE CRISIS.
MEANWHILE AT THE STATE LEVEL,
DESPITE MICHIGAN HAVING A
DEMOCRATIC TRIFECTA EFFORTS TO
ADDRESS THE CLIMATE CRISIS WERE
LARGELY STYMIED AS WELL.
THIS IS LARGELY DUE TO THE
INFLUENCE OF THE CORROSIVE
COMPANY DTT IS DETERMINED TO
PREVENT US FROM TAKING THE
NECESSARY ACTIONS NEEDED TO
ADDRESS THE CLIMATE CRISIS AND
THEY ARE TRYING TO DO THE SAME
HERE.
I'M SURE ALL OF YOU HAVE
RECEIVED THESE THE ONLY REPORT
ON THE COSTS OF MUNICIPAL
IZATION THAT THEY PUT OUT ABOUT
LAST WEEK ODDLY TIMED SLIGHTLY
BEFORE THESE RESOLUTIONS WERE
TO COME FORWARD.
I URGE YOU TO LOOK PAST THESE
THESE NUMBERS ARE CLEARLY
INTENDED TO PUSH A NARRATIVE.
WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH EFFECTIVE
CLIMATE ACTION IN THIS CITY.
THERE IS NO OTHER WAY THAT WE
ARE GOING TO REACH OUR CLIMATE
GOALS WITHOUT PURSUING PUBLIC
POWER AND WELL YES, THE PRICE
TAG UP FRONT FOR SOME OF THESE
STEPS NECESSARY TO GET TO THAT
FINISH LINE OF TRULY ACHIEVING
100 PERCENT RENEWABLE POWER CAN
BE HIGH.
THEY ARE AN INVESTMENT THAT
WILL PAY RETURNS FAR GREATER
THAN ANY COSTS THAT WE ARE
BEING PUT IN FRONT OF US.
>> THINK ABOUT THIS NOT ONLY
JUST THINKING ABOUT WHAT WE ARE
GETTING OUT OF ELECTRIC UTILITY
BUT THINK ABOUT THE INVESTMENT
THAT IS DOING RIGHT NOW IN OUR
COMMUNITIES.
I'M SURE ALL OF YOU HAVE SEEN
THEIR ADS THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
PUSHING OUT TO ALL OF US AND I
WANT YOU TO ASK YOURSELF IF YOU
TRULY BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE
DOING THIS OUT OF THE GOODNESS
OF THEIR HEART OR IF PERHAPS
THEY ARE FEELING SOME PRESSURE
FROM THE ACTIONS THIS COUNCIL
ARE TAKING.
I URGE YOU TO KEEP THIS PROCESS
GOING BECAUSE IF YOU STOP IT
NOW THAT INVESTMENT IS ALSO
GOING TO STOP IN THAT ONE POINT
SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS IS GOING
TO LOOK PRETTY SMALL COMPARED
TO THE HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS THAT'S ALREADY
PREPARED TO PUT IN.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHLEEN
MURPHY
.
>> SO DENHA CITY COUNCIL AND
MAYOR TAYLOR AND ATTENDEES IN
THIS ROOM TO THIS MEETING.
I AM KATHLEEN MURPHY.
I LIVE AT THREE FIFTY AND THE
VISTA STREET THAT'S IN WARD
FIVE.
I SUPPORT HAVING A PUBLICLY
OWNED IF YOU CAN SAY THAT OR
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY AND
ANN ARBOR AND REPLACING DTN.
THEREFORE I'M URGING YOU TO
APPROVE THE TWO RESOLUTIONS ON
THE AGENDA TONIGHT LISTED AS DC
ONE IN DC TO WHICH ARE BOTH
NECESSARY STEPS IN THE JOURNEY
TOWARDS A MUNICIPAL OR CITY
OWNED ELECTRIC ELECTRICAL
UTILITY DC ONE IS THE
RESOLUTION ASKING TO APPROVE
THE MONEY FOR AN ELECTION
ELECTRIC GRID AND ASSESSMENT
EVALUATION AND MUNICIPAL
MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION STUDY AT
ONE MILLION SEVEN HUNDRED
TWENTY EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS
AND TWO RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
CITY STAFF TO DO THE
PRELIMINARY WORK NECESSARY TO
WITH THE QUESTION OF THE
ACQUISITION OF DTT ELECTRIC
COMPANY'S ASSETS TO A VOTE
OF THE PEOPLE AND PREPARE FOR
LITIGATION SHOULD THE VOTERS
AUTHORIZE SUCH ACQUISITION THEY
THE ADVANTAGES OF A MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY ARE THAT IT
WOULD COST LESS FOR CUSTOMERS
AS SEEN IN THE EXAMPLE
OF CHELSEA AND WE WOULD BE ABLE
TO USE RENEWABLES AS OUR SOURCE
OF POWER INSTEAD OF FOSSIL
FUELS WHICH NEKI USES.
IN OTHER WORDS, IT WOULD BE
BETTER FOR THE PLANET SINCE THE
CURRENT FEDERAL ADMINISTRATION
HAS NO INTEREST IN REDUCING THE
USE OF FOSSIL FUELS.
IT IS ONE THING WE COULD DO AT
A LOCAL LEVEL TO REDUCE THE
CARBON FOOTPRINT OF ANOTHER
THOSE BY MUNICIPAL RISING OUR
ELECTRIC UTILITY WE COULD
CONTROL WHAT ENERGY SOURCES AND
AND OTHER USES TO HAVE THE
POSSIBILITY OF MUNICIPAL ISING
WE NEED TO PASS THESE TWO
RESOLUTIONS.
THE COST OF THE MUNICIPAL
CAUSATION STUDY IS HIGH BUT THE
COST OF NOT UNDERTAKING IT ARE
MUCH HIGHER AS WE WOULD BE
UNABLE TO ASK THE VOTERS TO
VOTE TO BUY OUT BECAUSE WE
WOULD NOT KNOW WHAT THE COST
OF THOSE ASSETS WERE.
BUT THE POSSIBILITY
OF MUNICIPAL RISING OUR
ELECTRIC UTILITY WOULD
UNFORTUNATELY NO LONGER BE AN
OPTION WHICH IS A MAJOR LOSS I
THINK TO ANN ARBOR.
SO I URGE YOU THE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND MAYOR TO APPROVE
THESE TWO RESOLUTIONS WHEN THE
OPPOUNITY ARISES SO MUNICIPAL
ZATION OF OUR ELECTRIC UTILITY
COULD BE AN OPTION FOR ANN
ARBOR AND VOTERS WOULD HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO VOTE FOR OR
AGAINST THE ACQUISITION
OF THESE ASSETS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SIDNEY
ALTHOFF HIGH COUNCIL.
MY NAME CITY HOLTORF AND I'M AN
UNDERGRAD AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND I'VE ALSO BEEN
ORGANIZING WITHIN OUR PUBLIC
POWER FOR ABOUT A YEAR AND A
HALF SINCE I STARTED AT
MICHIGAN AND I AM A RESIDENT
OF WARD FOUR.
SO I JUST WANTED TO ADDRESS
TODAY SPECIFICALLY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS AND COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN BECAUSE I'M
CONCERNED ABOUT SOME THINGS
THAT YOU PUT IN YOUR NEWSLETTER
AND I JUST WANT TO TALK ABOUT
THEM.
SO IN YOUR NEWSLETTER YOU CLAIM
TO CARE FOR OTHER PRIORITIES
OVER PURSUING MINIATURIZATION
AND ONE OF THOSE INTERESTINGLY
BEING CLIMATE AND YOU MENTIONED
YOUR DESIRE TO PURSUE RELIABLE,
RENEWABLE AND MORE AFFORDABLE
POWER AND YET IN THIS WAY YOU
STAND WITH DTT ACROSS THE
COUNTRY RIGHT NOW DEMOCRATS ARE
SILENT.
WHERE ARE THEY?
I MEAN AGAIN, THIS IS NOT
INCREDIBLY SURPRISING BUT GIVEN
THE BEST FUNDED ELECTION THAT
THE DEMOCRATS HAVE EVER HAD, I
DON'T KNOW WHERE EVERYONE IS
AND WHERE PEOPLE ARE AT OUR
NATIONAL STATE AND LOCAL LEVEL
THEY ARE SILENT ON CLIMATE,
BRUTAL UNJUST IMMIGRATION
ENFORCEMENT ATTACKS ON LGBTQ
PEOPLE, THE DISINTEGRATION
OF NATIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH,
EDUCATION AND AID PROGRAMS
WHERE OUR LEADERS, YOUR
CONSTITUENTS ARE AFRAID,
RESTLESS AND FRUSTRATED BY YOUR
INACTION.
THERE'S NO PLACE FOR I CARE
ABOUT CLEAN ENERGY BUT ARE
OF COURSE WE CARE ABOUT OUR
IMMIGRANT COMMUNITIES.
BUT THESE DELAYS AND HESITATION
ARE IN ACTION AND AS STUDENTS,
AS RESIDENTS, AS VOTERS, AS
YOUR CONSTITUENTS WE DESERVE
OUR DEMOCRATICALLY REPRESENTED
OFFICIALS TO REPRESENT OUR
CONCERNS AND ANN ARBOR SORRY A
REPUBLIC POWER IS A STEP
FORWARD TO TAKE IF YOU TRULY
WANT TO PUSH FOR CLEAN ENERGY
NO AMOUNT OF ADVERTISING
POSTCARDS FUNDED BY OUR MONEY
BY THE WAY, MY VERY HIGH BILLS
THAT I'M PAYING IN MY APARTMENT
THAT ALREADY COSTS A LOT
OF MONEY WILL GET US TO OUR
RENEWABLE ENERGY GOALS SO TODAY
I'M ASKING YOU TO COMMIT TO
YOUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS,
COMMIT TO YOUR CITY, COMMIT TO
YOUR PROTECTIVE IMMIGRATION
POLICIES, COMMIT TO YOUR
SUPPORT FOR AN EDUCATION AND
EXPAND THESE GOALS, POLICIES
AND ACTIONS TO FOLLOW THROUGH
ON YOUR PROMISES TO ANN ARBOR.
AWARENESS IS NICE BUT I TIRED
OF SPEAKER EVENTS OF PUBLIC
EDUCATION CAMPAIGNS AND MY
GENERATION FRANKLY DOESN'T HAVE
THE TIME TO WAIT FOR THE RICH
HOMEOWNERS OF BANABA TO GRACE
US WITH OUR PURCHASE OF SOLAR
PANELS WITH YOU AND SO WE NEED
TO COMMIT TO DEMOCRATICALLY
CONTROLLED CLIMATE ACTION NOW
AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
I LOOK FORWARD TO
DISCUSSING
THIS FURTHER WITH MY COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DANIEL
MAYER.
THANK DANNY MEYER OF FIFTH
WARD.
TWENTY FIVE A RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR AND I TOO AM NO FAN
OF DTG I THINK THERE ARE MANY.
HOWEVER I WISH TO CONVEY A
DIFFERENT POINT OF VIEW THAN
THE OTHER PASSIONATE SPEAKERS
YOU'VE HEARD FROM THUS FAR
OF APPROXIMATELY SIXTY FOUR
KNOW EXACTLY SIXTY FOUR
MUNICIPALITIES HAVE TRIED THIS
PATH IN THE LAST TWO DECADES
AND OF THOSE ONLY SEVEN
SUCCEEDED IN CREATING A
MUNICIPAL POWER COMPANY.
OF THOSE SEVEN TWO OF THEM WERE
PURCHASED OR SOLD BACK TO THE
ORIGINAL POWER COMPANY BECAUSE
THEY FAILED THE OTHER FIVE
OF THEM ONE SERVED FOUR
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED CUSTOMERS
TOTAL.
TWO OF THEM SERVE TWO EXTREMELY
SMALL COMMUNITIES IN ALASKA
WITH SEVENTY FIVE CUSTOMERS
EACH THE OTHER TO SERVE SMALL
RURAL TOWNS OF FOURTEEN
THOUSAND AND EIGHTEEN THOUSAND
CUSTOMERS RESPECTIVELY.
THOSE USED TO BE CALLED RURAL
ELECTRIC CO-OPS.
THE OTHER 50 PLUS HAVE GONE
THIS PATH AND HAVE NOT GONE
FORWARD AT A TIME WHEN OUR
FEDERAL, STATE AND OTHER
FUNDING SOURCES ARE IN FLUX AND
THE RISK NOW IS NOT THE TIME TO
SPEND ONE POINT SEVEN MILLION
DOLLARS ON A STUDY THAT DOES
NOT PROVIDE AN OUTCOME.
IT SIMPLY KICKS THE CAN DOWN
THE ROAD.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE THE COUNCIL
TO FOCUS OUR TIME, OUR MONEY,
OUR RESOURCES ALL WHICH ARE
PRECIOUS ON MAXIMIZING THE SIU
THAT CAN START TODAY THAT CAN
BE MAXIMIZED IMMEDIATELY.
THE MEDIA STABILIZATION WILL
TAKE DECADES, WILL COST
MILLIONS, WILL COST BILLIONS
POTENTIALLY WILL COST LAWYERS
FEES AND LAWYERS FEES AND
LAWYERS FEES AND WE WON'T GET
ANYWHERE OTHER THAN WHERE THESE
OTHER MUNICIPALITIES HAVE
GOTTEN THEY'VE WASTED MONEY IF
GREEN RELIABLE ENERGY IS OUR
GOAL AND I HOPE IT IS I SEE THE
SIU AS THE BEST IMMEDIATE
VEHICLE AND WHERE WE SHOULD
FOCUS OUR ENERGY AND THAT PUN
IS INTENDED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG.
STOLLBERG IS JOINING THE COLOR
OF THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
FIVE THREE FOUR.
GO AHEAD.
>> PUT IN THIS TOWN STALWART
MOTOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
I'M SPEAKING TONIGHT AND WHY
YOU SHOULD NOT APPROVE GIVING A
BROKER 100000 DOLLARS
NONREFUNDABLE FOR AN EFFORT
THAT HAS VERY LITTLE CHANCE
OF SUCCESS.
I'VE HAD TO TAKE A PAUSE AND
SEE WHAT OUR NEW ECONOMIC
DIRECTOR CAN THINK UP READING
THROUGH HIS BIO RELEASED TODAY,
JOE GIANT SEEMS TO HAVE A SKILL
SET THAT COULD HELP SOLVE THE
VERY PROBLEMATIC FOR 15 WEST
WASHINGTON GIVE HIM A SHOT
BEFORE SLASHING ANOTHER
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
WE HAVE BEEN STEP BY STEP
ADVANCING AN OTHERWISE HIGHLY
PROBLEMATIC PLAN FOR 415 WEST
WASHINGTON BECAUSE WE WANT
SOMETHING TO HAPPEN SO BAD BUT
REALITY WILL CATCH UP WITH US
FIRST.
THE PREAPPROVE PLAN IS NOT TO
BE PREAPPROVED.
THE FCC MUST OFFICIALLY
APPROVE.
IT IS NOT OFFICIALLY BEEN
PRESENTED TO THE STATE IN
WORKING SESSION IT WAS CLEAR
THAT THE HTC WAS NOT INCLINED
TO APPROVE WHAT WAS PRESENTED
TO A BUYER.
WE'LL FIND THAT OUT WHEN THEY
DO THEIR DUE DILIGENCE TO THEIR
PROBLEMS WITH THE WAY THE DEAL
WAS FRUIT.
I SENT YOU A LONG EMAIL ABOUT
THAT EARLIER THREE FEDERAL AND
LOCAL POLICIES ARE TO NOT BUILD
RESIDENTIAL IN FLOOD PLAINS.
THOSE POLICIES EXIST FOR A VERY
GOOD REASON.
WE HAVE DECIDED THAT WE KNOW
BETTER THE MAJORITY OF THAT
SITE IS IN THE FRINGE AND VERY
FLAT AND BARELY HIGHER THAN THE
PART OF THE STATE IN THE
FLOODWAY NATURE WILL HAVE THE
LAST SAY AND HAS BEEN SPEAKING
LOUDER AND LOUDER WHEN IT COMES
TO STORMWATER WE AREN'T
LISTENING.
LET ME READ FROM OUR CITIES
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN FLOODING
MAY BECOME MORE FREQUENT DUE TO
ONE INCREASED PRECIPITATION
THAT IS MORE CONCENTRATED INTO
HEAVY PRECIPITATION EVENTS AND
TO INCREASE DEVELOPMENT AND
IMPERVIOUS COVER THE FLOODPLAIN
ASSOCIATED WITH THE ISLAND
CREEK IS PARTICULARLY
VULNERABLE AS IT IS ONE OF OUR
NEIGHBORS MOST POPULATED AREAS
AND DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE
FLOODPLAINS.
I'M GOING THE CITY STORM WATER
OF A CITY STORM SEWER IS NOT
DESIGNED TO HANDLE THOSE
STORMWATER VOLUMES.
ONE HUNDRED YEAR PRECIPITATION
AT THAT SEVERAL OF WHICH HAS
OCCURRED IN RECENT YEARS.
OUR CITIES RECENTLY RETIRED
STORM WATER EXPERT SAID I QUOTE
THE IDEA OF PLANNING FOR
RESIDENTIAL USES IS NOT
SUITABLE FROM A FLOODPLAIN
MANAGEMENT STANDPOINT.
THIS LOCATION WHILE CODE MAY
ALLOW RESIDENTIAL FRINGE
BUILDING ELEVATED RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURES IN THE FLOOD PRONE
INCREASES RESPONSIBILITY AND
COST OF SERVICING EMERGENCY
SERVICES IN RESPONDING TO FLOOD
EVENT INCREASES THE RISK
OF OCCUPANTS BEING INJURED IN A
FLOOD AND FLOOD PLAIN
CONSTRUCTION IS MORE COSTLY.
THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT
OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT SPENDING FEDERAL
MONEY FOR RESIDENTIAL USES IN
THE FLOOD PLAIN.
FOR THESE REASONS HE FINISHES
WITH THE CITY SHOULD ALSO AVOID
RESIDENTIAL IN THE FLOODPLAIN.
LET'S FIGURE OUT SOMETHING
BETTER.
THIS IS NOT A GOOD PLAN DOES
NOT PROCEED WITH SPENDING MONEY
HARD MONEY IS NOT REFUNDABLE
NOW THAT'S COME UP.
>> TIME IS BETTER.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RITA
MITCHELL
.
>> MAYOR RITA MITCHELL JOINING
US ON ZOON RITA MITCHELL, PHONE
NUMBER ONE NINE FOUR.
HELLO.
HI THIS IS RITA MITCHELL 621
HISTORY.
I'M SPOKEN TO COUNCIL ABOUT 415
WEST WASHINGTON MULTIPLE TIMES
IN THE PAST.
I'M RETURNING TONIGHT TO REPEAT
MY CONCERNS AND TO ASK TO
EXCLUDE 415 WEST WASHINGTON
FROM THE BROKERAGE CONTACT THAT
CONTRACT THAT I PRESENTED TO
YOU TONIGHT WE'RE IN A CLIMATE
CRISIS AND THE CITY IS RIGHTLY
PREPARING FOR ACTIONS TO
SUSTAIN BASIC FOR THE COMMUNITY
IN THE EVENT OF A WEATHER
EMERGENCY.
YOU KNOW THAT 415 WEST
WASHINGTON IS LOCATED IN LEIGH
CREEK FLOODPLAIN AND FLOODWAY
AS THE PRIOR SPEAKER SAID, THE
FLOODWAY PORTION OF THE SITE IS
TO BE DEDICATED TO THE TREE
LINE TRAIL.
THAT'S A GOOD IDEA EVEN
PROJECTIONS FOR MORE FREQUENT
AND INTENSE STORMS AS
EXPERIENCED IN RECENT YEARS AND
EXEMPLIFIED BY THE WINTER STORM
THAT JUST HIT KENTUCKY THE CITY
SHOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF FLOODPLAIN PROPERTY THAT IT
ALREADY OWNS AND USE IT TO
PROVIDE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SERVICES, ABSORPTION AND
FILTERING.
>> YOU'LL SAVE LIVES BY NOT
BUILDING HOUSING IN A RISKY
AREA.
YOU'LL SAVE LIVES OF SAFETY
PERSONNEL WHO MAY BE CALLED TO
RESCUE PEOPLE IN FLOODED AREAS
AND WHO COULD BE DEPLOYED
ELSEWHERE IN AN EMERGENCY YOU
WILL SAY FLOOD INSURANCE MONEY
FOR THOSE REQUIRED TO PURCHASE
IT BECAUSE THEY LIVE IN A FLOOD
PRONE AREA.
I ASK YOU TO EXPLAIN WHY YOU'RE
CONSIDERING INCREASING RISK TO
PEOPLE AND PROPERTY BY
INCREASING HOUSING IN A FLOOD
PLAIN AREA WHILE AT THE SAME
TIME PURCHASING FLOOD PRONE
AREAS IN OTHER AREAS PROPERTY
IN OTHER AREAS OF THE CITY SUCH
AS THAT ON GARDENING YOU CAN
USE THE OPEN SPACE FOR THE Y TO
HAVE OUTDOOR ACCESS OR CLASSES
FOR EVENTS AND CASUAL DRAWINGS
THAT WILL DRAW MORE PEOPLE TO
THE DOWNTOWN AREA FOR 15 MONTHS
WASHINGTON IS LONG RECOGNIZED
AS EXCELLENT NOW NO DIRECT LINK
TO THE WEST SIDE OF THE HARBOR
.
IT'S TIME TO ACT BOLDLY
ACKNOWLEDGE THE NATURAL SYSTEMS
IN WHICH WE LIVE AND WORK TO
LIVE WITH THEM AS OPPOSED TO
HAVING TO DEVELOP WAYS TO WORK
AROUND THEM.
AND WHILE ON THE TOPIC
OF CLIMATE EMERGENCY, I ASK YOU
TO SUPPORT THE RESOLUTIONS THAT
WILL COME BEFORE YOU SEEM TO
PROCEED WITH A FEASIBILITY
STUDY FOR MUNICIPAL ELECTRICITY
FOR AMERICA.
I RECOGNIZE THE COSTS FOR
PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT AND THE
STUDY WILL BE INVOLVED AND WILL
BE BETTER DEFINED BY THE STUDY
.
I REMIND YOU THAT MUNICIPAL
UTILITY WILL GENERATE REVENUE
FROM THE ELECTRICITY PROVIDED
WILL ALLOW FLEXIBILITY TO
INSTALL AND PURCHASE CLEAN
RENEWABLE ENERGY.
IT WILL EVEN EXPAND THE RANGE
OF SERVICES AND THE NUMBER
OF RATEPAYERS OVER THE GROUP
THAT THE EU PLANS TO COVER 30
ON ELECTRICITY GOES DIRECTLY TO
THE CITY RATHER THAN TO DTT
INVESTOR LOCAL CONTROL
OF ENERGY WILL BENEFIT THE CITY
RESIDENTS AND BUSINESSES IN THE
LONG RUN.
I'M RELYING ON YOU TO DECIDE TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH A PLAN THAT
HAS SUSTAINABILITY BUILT INTO
IT AND THAT CAN RESPOND TO THE
URGENT NEED FOR CLEAN RENEWABLE
ENERGY.
I LOOK FORWARD TO YOUR FUTURE
VOTE IN SUPPORT OF THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM JUST
GAVAGE ADAM DISCOVERED JUST
JOINING US I'M ZOOME
CHUCKLEHEAD.
>> HELLO THIS IS ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ CALLING FROM THE
FOURTH WARD.
I'D LIKE TO THANK THE SPONSORS
FOR BRINGING FORWARD DC THREE
REGARDING PROACTIVE ENFORCEMENT
FOR BIKE LANE OBSTRUCTIONS CARS
.
THE BIKE LANES ARE A PERPETUAL
PROBLEM AND THE CURRENT SYSTEM
OF REPORTING THESE SEE QUICK
FIX ARE CALLING THAT AN
EMERGENCY DISPATCH IS NOT
WORKING PROACTIVE ENFORCEMENT
JUST AS WE DO WITH COMMERCIAL
LOADING ZONES, PARKING METERS
AND SO FORTH WILL GO A LONG WAY
TOWARD ENSURING PEOPLE FIND
ILLEGAL PARKING ELSEWHERE
RATHER THAN TAKING A CHANCE AND
BLOCKING TRAFFIC ON THE BIKE
LANE.
I THINK IT'S A GREAT IDEA TO
COUPLE THIS WITH DATA GATHERING
AND EXPLORATION OF ENGINEERING
SOLUTIONS TO PREVENT THE
PROBLEM IN THE FIRST PLACE.
PLEASE PASS THIS TONIGHT ON THE
TOPIC OF ENFORCEMENT OF RULES
THAT ENSURE THE SAFETY
OF MANNED MOTORIZED USERS
OF OUR TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
I WOULD LIKE TO AGAIN ADDRESS
THE TOPIC OF SIDEWALK SNOW AND
ICE REMOVAL.
WE HAVE A VERY SIMILAR PROBLEM
WITH REGARD TO KEEPING OUR
SIDEWALKS CLEAR OF SNOW ICE AS
WE DO WITH KEEPING OUR BIKE
LANES CLEAR OF CARS AND WHEELIE
BINS.
WE CURRENTLY RELY ON PEOPLE TO
REPORT VIOLATIONS, SEE QUICK
FIX AND THOSE REPORTS OFTEN DO
NOT GET ADDRESSED IN A TIMELY
FASHION.
AS A CONSEQUENCE, DANGEROUS
CONDITIONS PERSIST FOR SEVERAL
DAYS, PARTICULARLY IF SNOWFALL
OCCURS ON A FRIDAY OR OVER THE
WEEKEND.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE A SIMILAR
RESOLUTION TO DC THREE BUT
REGARDING PROACTIVE ENFORCEMENT
OF SIDEWALKS, SNOW AND ICE
REMOVAL I REALIZE DOING US ON
EVERY SIDEWALK IN THE CITY IS
UNREALISTIC BUT I THINK A GOOD
WAY TO REDUCE THE SCOPE IS TO
FOCUS ON SIDEWALKS ADJACENT TO
PRIORITY ONE TO SNOW PLOWING
ROUTES.
THESE TRUCKS ARE IMPORTANT
THOROUGHFARES IN OUR CITY WHERE
MOST OF OUR BUS STOPS SCHOOLS,
SHOPPING AREAS AND MULTI-FAMILY
HOMES ARE LOCATED.
IF YOU'RE WALKING ANYWHERE IN
THE CITY, CHANCES ARE PART
OF YOUR WALK IF NOT YOUR ORIGIN
AND OUR DESTINATION WILL BE ON
ONE OF THESE ROUTES MAKING SURE
THEY ARE CLEAR WILL BENEFIT THE
MOST PEOPLE WITH THE LEAST
EFFORT GIVEN DC THREE TONIGHT
IT'S A NO BRAINER TO APPLY THE
SAME LOGIC TO KEEPING OUR
SIDEWALKS CLEAR OF SNOW AND
ICE.
THE RESOLUTIONS COULD BE ALMOST
IDENTICAL.
MOST OF THE WHEREAS CLAUSES
ALSO APPLY TO KEEPING SIDEWALKS
SAFE AND ACCESSIBLE FOR
EVERYONE AND EVEN THE RESOLVED
CLAUSES COULD BE PRETTY MUCH
THE SAME EVENTUALLY I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE THE CITY TAKE ON
SIDEWALK SNOW REMOVAL CITYWIDE
BUT UNTIL THAT HAPPENS I
BELIEVE PROACTIVE ENFORCEMENT
OF OUR CURRENT ORDINANCE IS
NECESSARY JUST AS IT IS FOR
KEEPING BIKE LANES CLEAR
OF CARS AND WHEELIE BINS.
PLEASE PASS DC THREE TONIGHT
AND PLEASE BRING FORWARD A
SIMILAR RESOLUTION FOR SIDEWALK
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MAKING SIMS
I'M GOING TO READ SO I CAN STAY
THREE MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND MEMBERS
OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
WE ARE ORDINARY PEOPLE IN
EXTRAORDINARY TIMES JOLTED INTO
A NEW REALITY THESE PAST FEW
YEARS.
WE MUST UPGRADE OUR STANDARDS
OF ACTION FROM THE STATUS QUO
TO A NEW NORMAL FOR ALL
DECISIONS REGARDING AN OVER
FROM BIKE LANES TO TREE REMOVAL
TO SIDEWALKS AND ZONING, WE
MUST CREATE A RADICAL UPGRADE
AND OUR ABILITY TO BALANCE
BETWEEN GROWTH AND BUILDING
WITH ECOLOGICALLY SUSTAINABLE
AND SURVIVABLE CONNECTION WITH
NEIGHBOR NATURE.
THIS MEANS INNOVATION AND
COLLABORATION IN CONCRETE TERMS
AND YOU'LL GET THE PUN IN JUST
A SECOND.
WE CAN NO LONGER AFFORD TO CUT
DOWN OLD GROWTH TREES AND BRING
IN THE TYPICAL CEMENT TRUCK TO
FILL IN ALL THESE GAPS IN THE
SIDEWALKS.
THAT'S WAY TOO MUCH
ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE.
SO WHAT DO WE DO?
WE DO THE EXTRAORDINARY
INNOVATE AND COLLABORATE.
WE CALL UPON THE RICH RESOURCES
OF OUR CUTTING EDGE UNIVERSITY
AND STUDENTS AND TEACHERS AND
PUBLIC HEALTH, URBAN PLANNING,
ENGINEERING AND SCHOOL
SUSTAINABILITY WITH OUR LOCAL
WORLD RENOWNED ARCHITECTS AND
WE IMPLEMENT NEW IDEAS.
WE CREATE NEW SOLUTIONS FOR OUR
NEWER CHALLENGES.
PROGRESSIVES WHO WANT INFINITE
GROWTH WANT ONLY PROGRESS
TOWARD OUR EXTINCTION.
IF YOU ARE TRULY PROGRESSIVE
YOU WILL UNDERSTAND THE URGENT
NEED TO STRETCH YOUR ABILITIES,
YOUR EFFORTS AND YOUR OUTLOOK
OF WHAT SEEMS POSSIBLE TO REACH
FOR SOLUTIONS TRULY NOURISH THE
ANAPRA COMMUNITY BOTH HUMAN AND
MORE THAN HUMAN AND ARBER IS
GROWING IN POPULARITY AND
POPULATION.
IT IS NOW DEEMED THE FRESH
COAST BECAUSE OF CLIMATE CHANGE
AND OUR POSITION IN THE WORLD
AND OTHER ATTRACTIVE FEATURES
WE ARE GROWING FAST.
WE CAN BE A MODEL FOR THE WORLD
BUT I'M SEEING MY TOWN
TRANSFORM FROM A FUNKY
IDIOSYNCRATIC COLLEGE TOWN IN
WHICH MANY DIVERSE POPULATIONS
FLOURISH TO A HOMOGENEOUS
GOTHAM CITY TYPE SKYSCAPE IN
WHICH MONEY TALKS AND EVERY
CITY BLOCK IS CHOCK FULL
OF NATIONAL CHAINS WITH NO
LOCAL FLAVOR.
EVERY TOWN I KNOW HAS JUST
ABOUT GIVEN UP ON KEEPING WHAT
WE CHERISH IN ANN ARBOR IT
FEELS LIKE WE'VE BEEN SOLD OUT
TO OUT OF TOWN INVESTORS.
SO CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS, WHAT
IS YOUR VISION OF OUR BELOVED
TREE TOWN?
I KNOW THAT YOU ARE CONSTANTLY
BEING ASKED TO ADDRESS ISSUES
THAT PULL YOU AND OUR RESOURCES
IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
I'M ASKING TO SLOW DOWN YOUR
DECISION MAKING PROCESS TO
INCLUDE COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN A
MEANINGFUL WAY, ESPECIALLY WHEN
OUR ECOSYSTEMS ARE IN QUESTION
FOR BRUCKMAN ST. NICHOLS
ARBORETUM AND OPEN ZONING FOR
HOUSING AND POPULATION DENSITY,
WE MUST DO MUCH MORE TO RESPECT
,RESTORE AND CULTIVATE THE
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT INCLUDING
THE TREES OUR TOWN WAS NAMED
FOR.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD
.
THANK YOU.
MY TOPIC TONIGHT IS SAFE AND
FOR EVERYONE AND I THINK SAFETY
WAS ONE OF THE THEMES FOR MANY
OF THE TALKS TONIGHT AND IF WE
HAD A SAFETY VISION THAT WE
USED ALONG WITH OUR CRISIS FOR
HOUSING AND OUR CRISIS FOR
SUSTAINABILITY AND CLIMATE
CHANGE, WE COULD BETTER MAKE
DECISIONS.
BUT SAFETY HAS TO DRIVE
EVERYTHING WE DO.
WE CAN'T SAY WE'RE TOO BUSY TO
DO FIRST I WANT TO START WITH
SOME THANK YOUS.
I WANT TO THANK ALL THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO HAVE BEEN
POSTING SOCIAL ISSUES ON SOCIAL
MEDIA AND PLEASE REMEMBER TO
USE AID TO FIX IT AND IT IS THE
ONLY PLATFORM MONITORED BY CITY
STAFF.
I ALSO WANT TO MENTION THAT
THERE IS A GROWING BODY
OF INCRIMINATING INFORMATION
OUT ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
NUMBER TWO, I WANT TO THANK THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION THEY
MET THEY HAVE A RESOLUTION
THEY'RE GOING TO CONSIDER ON
WEDNESDAY AND IT CARES A GOAL
OF CREATING REMOTE DROP OFF
ZONE HOW NOVEL THAT SOUNDS LIKE
KING SCHOOL TO ME IT SOUNDS
LIKE THOSE REMOTE DROP OFF
ZONES THAT I'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT FOR MANY YEARS SO MAYBE
WE'LL CONSIDER THEM AGAIN.
AND NUMBER THREE, I WANT TO
THANK THE LIVE NEWS REPORTERS.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE SEEN
THIS ARTICLE YET.
THIS IS THE SLED AND THE FENCE
POST WHERE A LITTLE BOY
SUSTAINED A CONCUSSION OVER A
WEEKEND AND A QUOTE FROM A CITY
STAFFER ABOUT HOW TO AVOID
THESE TYPE OF CRASHES.
AVOID HILLS WITH TREES,
TELEPHONE POLES, LARGE ROCKS
AND FENCES ON THE OR AT THE
BASE OF THE.
THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT ANN ARBOR
HAS STANDARD PRACTICE IS IF YOU
CAN'T REMOVE THE POST, PUT SOME
PADDING OVER IT LIKE EVERY SKI
RESORT AND PRIVATE SLEDDING
FACILITY HAS.
SO I'M I'M CONFIDENT WE'RE
GOING TO DO THAT THEN I WANT TO
MENTION THAT WE NEED A POLICY
FOR CITY COUNCIL TO PASS THAT
ADDRESS THE SAFETY SAFETY FIRST
WE EVALUATE OUR COMPANIES THAT
WE GIVE CONTRACTS TO BASED ON
SAFETY THEIR OSHA SCORE.
THERE ARE MANY STAFFERS
INDIVIDUALLY WHO ARE VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT SAFETY.
I MET A FEW OF THEM THIS
WEEKEND.
HOWEVER, WE DON'T HAVE A
DRIVING MISSION FROM COUNCIL
AND WE NEED THAT.
WE NEED TO KEEP SAFETY IN FRONT
OF EVERYTHING WE DO.
SO I THINK I HAVE ALMOST ENDED
OTHER THAN I SENT AN EMAIL
TODAY I WANT TO DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO IT.
IT MENTIONS FOR SAFETY ISSUES
TIME DOESN'T ALLOW ME TO GO
INTO IT RIGHT NOW.
BUT WHY CAN'T WE KEEP THE
LIGHTS ON IN ANN ARBOR?
IT'S A REAL SHAME.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK?
I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON THAT WILL
BE HOSTING OUR NEXT LISTENING
SESSION THIS SUNDAY, FEBRUARY
TWENTY THIRD FROM THREE TO FOUR
P.M. AT TREVER WOOD LIBRARY AND
WE WILL HAVE A SPECIAL GUEST
THAT WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
CHIEF ANDRE ANDERSON OF THE ANN
ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
>> THANKS AND WE HOPE TO SEE
YOU THERE.
COUNCILMAN BRITISH, I WANT TO
REMIND EVERYONE THAT MONDAY
EVENING, FEBRUARY 24TH, CYNTHIA
HARRISON AND I WILL BE HAVING A
COFFEE HOUR AT BAMBU WHICH IS
LOCATED 200 SOUTH FIRST AND WE
WILL HAVE SPECIAL GUEST DR.
MISTI STULTS TO TALK ABOUT THE
VERY SPECIAL SEIYU
JOHNSON ALSO
WANTED TO DRAW RESIDENTS
ATTENTION TO AC AC1, THE ANN
ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION SIX
MONTH FISCAL YEAR TWENTY FIVE
PROGRAM EXPENDITURE REPORT ON
THE ONE MILLION SEVENTY FIVE
THOUSAND MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
REBATE FUNDS HAVE BEEN A PROUD
CO-SPONSOR OF OUR BUDGET
AMENDMENTS USING MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX FUNDS TO SUPPORT
EVICTION PREVENTION USE
SERVICES AND THE RISING HOPE
FOR HOUSING PROGRAM FOR HOUSING
VOUCHER HOUSEHOLDS INVOLVED IN
THE CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM.
I'LL GIVE SOME HIGHLIGHTS
OF THE OUTCOMES OF THIS
SPENDING THE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND COUNCIL ALLOCATED TO
EVICTION PREVENTION IN FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY FIVE HAS HELPED ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SIX
HOUSEHOLDS WITH HALF PAST TO
RENT LEGAL FEES, UTILITIES AND
ANY OTHER OVERDUE PAYMENTS FOR
HOUSEHOLDS IN DANGER OF LOSING
THEIR HOUSE THEIR HOUSING
THROUGH EVICTION.
SINCE COUNCIL HAS APPROVED
EVICTION PREVENTION FUNDING IN
THE LAST THREE FISCAL YEARS
THAT BRINGS THE TOTAL TO FOUR
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FIVE
HOUSEHOLDS ASSISTED BETWEEN
MARCH OF 2003 AND SEPTEMBER
OF TWENTY FOUR.
AND WE KNOW THAT EVICTION
PREVENTION FUNDING IS THE MOST
EFFICIENT WAY TO KEEP PEOPLE
HOUSED BECAUSE IT'S EASIER TO
KEEP PEOPLE IN THEIR HOMES THAN
TO HELP THEM ONCE THEY'VE
FALLEN INTO HOMELESSNESS.
THE SUM OF THESE FUNDS
COVERED NINETY FOUR PERCENT
OF TOTAL PAST DUE RENT OWED BY
ALL PARTICIPANTS AND NINETY SIX
PERCENT OF ACCEPTED APPLICANTS
HAD ALL THEIR PAST TO RENT
COVERED THE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND ALLOCATED TO YOUTH
SERVICES WENT TO ELEVEN
NONPROFIT COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS
SOME PROVIDING
SERVICES ON OUR HOUSING
COMMISSION SITES LIKE AVALON
HOUSING AND OTHERS SERVING
PREDOMINANTLY MINORITY AND
REFUGEE COMMUNITIES LIKE
WASHINGTON MY BROTHER'S KEEPER
AND JEWISH FAMILY SERVICES THE
REMAINDER THE FUNDS WENT TO
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING, WHICH
HAS CREATED A NETWORK
OF ORGANIZATIONS TO PROVIDE
TRAUMA INFORMED CASE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES PRIORITIZING
INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES
IMPACTED BY THE CRIMINAL LEGAL
SYSTEM.
WITH KENNETH BASS HOUSING
CHOICE VOUCHERS INCLUDING
RETURNING CITIZENS.
SO BETWEEN JULY 1ST AND
DECEMBER 31ST OF TWENTY TWENTY
FOR THE RISING HOPE PROGRAM
ASSISTED FORTY THREE HOUSEHOLDS
AVERAGING SEVEN PER MONTH.
MOST REFERRALS CONTINUE TO BE
NEW APPLICANT HOUSEHOLDS WITH
ONLY ABOUT SEVEN HOUSEHOLDS
RETURNING FOR ADDITIONAL
SERVICE THROUGH THE PROGRAM.
SO IT'S HELPING PEOPLE AND I'D
BE REMISS IF I DIDN'T THINK
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON FOR HER
LEADERSHIP ON THAT PROGRAM I'M
GRATEFUL TO THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION AND THE
NUMEROUS WEB OF NONPROFITS THAT
HAVE HELPED PROVIDE SERVICES
WITH MARIJUANA FENT THANK YOU
FOR THE COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL BRACKMAN.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO BE SURE THAT PEOPLE
KNEW ABOUT A NEW REBATE'S THAT
THE CITY IS OFFERING FOR
ELECTRIC LAWN EQUIPMENT.
AS MANY FOLKS KNOW WE ARE DOING
A PHASED IN SORRY PHASE OUT
OF GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS
VERY POLLUTING FOR THE AIR USE
A TON OF CARBON.
THEIR CARBON FOOTPRINT IS HUGE.
WHAT'S THE STATISTIC?
ONE GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWER FOR
ONE HOUR COMMIT THE SAME AMOUNT
OF GREENHOUSE GASES AS DRIVING
A GAS POWERED CAR OVER A
THOUSAND MILES.
SO ANYWAY WE ARE OFFERING A
DISCOUNT ON BOTH ELECTRIC LIGHT
EQUIPMENT AS WELL AS AN
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWER REBATE
PROGRAM.
SOME OF THIS IS STRUCTURED FOR
LANDSCAPING COMPANIES AND SOME
OF IT FOR INDIVIDUAL.
YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE ON THE
OSSI SUSTAINABILITY WEBSITE
THINKS MCCONNELL KEEP LOGGING
MORE MILES WARD FIVE WE'RE
ALMOST THERE FOR THE KAKKAR THE
CALL A COUPLE MORE DAYS IF YOU
HAVEN'T LOGGED YOUR MILES
PLEASE GO AND DO SO ALONG THOSE
LINES.
I WANT TO THANK CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MR. TONY AND CITY
STAFF.
THIS HAS BEEN OUR LAST TWO
SNOWSTORMS HAVE I'VE NEVER
HEARD SO FEW COMPLAINTS ABOUT
THE STATE OF OUR DOWNTOWN AND
HOW EASILY IT WAS TO GET OUT ON
THE SIDEWALKS.
I ACTUALLY WENT TO MY
EMPLOYMENT DOWNTOWN VERY EARLY
ON THURSDAY MORNING AFTER THE
SNOWSTORM AND WAS PLEASANTLY
SURPRISED TO FIND THAT I COULD
WALK UP THE HILL ON LIBERTY IN
HEELS WITHOUT A PROBLEM BECAUSE
THE SIDEWALK WAS COMPLETELY
CLEARED AND A LOT OF RESIDENTS
AND A LOT OF BUSINESS OWNERS
DOWNTOWN REACHED OUT TO SHARE
THEIR APPRECIATION AND FOR
BETTER OR WORSE SURPRISE HAD
OUR RESPONSE TO THAT.
SO I THINK THE FACT THAT IN
DECEMBER WHEN WE DID AUTHORIZE
THAT ADDITIONAL SNOW CLEARING
BUDGET AND ASKED THE CITY TO
PAY CLOSER ATTENTION TO THE
WALKABILITY OF DOWNTOWN, IT'S
YIELDING RESULTS AND I URGE
RESIDENTS TO CONTINUE TO SHARE
THE FEEDBACK GOOD OR BAD.
IT WAS REALLY NICE TO HEAR THAT
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE ASKED
FOR A LOT OF CITIZENS ASK FOR.
WE TOOK ACTION ON AND IT
RESULTED IN SOMETHING POSITIVE
WHICH WE DON'T ALL RIGHT.
WE DON'T HEAR VERY OFTEN.
SO THANK YOU.
THAT WAS A GREAT JOB BY THE
CITY AND I ALSO WANTED TO SAY
THANK YOU TO ALL THE RESIDENTS
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS
WHO REACHED OUT TO SHARE
FEEDBACK ON AGENDA ITEMS THIS
WEEK THERE WAS A LOT
OF BALLADRY VOLUME
OF COMMUNICATION THAT I
RECEIVED AND I BELIEVE MY
COLLEAGUES RECEIVED AND IT'S
HELPFUL TO HEAR FROM A BROAD
RANGE OF VOICES.
SO THANK YOU.
>> IT MATTERS WHEN YOU REACH
OUT WE DO PAY ATTENTION FOR
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING REAPPOINTMENT FOR
YOUR FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION TO
THE BOARD OF REVIEW ALICE
BOINGS WE HAVE THE FORCE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MAY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA CATHERINE
BRITISH I DON'T WANT TO PULL
ANYTHING.
I JUST WANTED TO THERE'S A LOT
OF REALLY GREAT STUFF ON THIS
CONSENT AGENDA AND IF I TALKED
ABOUT ALL OF IT YOU WOULD ALL
FALL OVER BOARD.
>> BUT I DID WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT A THIRTEEN IS THE
AUTHORIZATION FOR A NEW
COMMERCIAL AND MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL CHARGER PROGRAM
THROUGH OSA.
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN WORKING WITH
COMMERCIAL AND MULTIFAMILY
PROPERTY OWNERS TO CO DESIGN A
PROGRAM TO AND TO ASSIST
COMMERCIAL AND MULTIFAMILY
SITES WITH INSTALLING PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE CHARGERS AND THEY
HAVE WORKED THAT OUT AND THERE
WILL BE A ROUGHLY THREE YEAR
IT'S HARD TO TELL F TWENTY FIVE
TO TWENTY SEVEN THREE YEAR
PILOT AND I'M REALLY EXCITED
AND I HOPE THAT PEOPLE WILL
APPLY FOR THAT WHEN THE PORTAL
OPENS UP FOR THAT THIS IS GRANT
FUNDED AND BOY WE JUST NEED
MORE EV CHARGERS BECAUSE THOSE
OF US WHO ARE NOT RIDING BIKES
SHOULD BE CHARGING OUR CARS
KEL'S OVER MALLICK I WOULD LIKE
TO PULL A 15 IF WE COULD AND
THE NEXT I NOTE BY MY COUNT
THAT AT LEAST FIVE ITEMS ON
TONIGHT'S CONSENT AGENDA A FULL
ONE THIRD RELATE TO COST
OVERRUNS IN THE NEED TO
APPROPRIATE ADDITIONAL AND
OFTEN MANY OF THE CASES
UNPLANNED FUNDS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT A LOT OF TIME
COST OVERRUNS ARE COMPLETELY
UNAVOIDABLE GOVERNMENT PROJECTS
FROM THE EARLY PLANNING PHASE
TO FINAL COMPLETION OFTEN TAKE
PLACE OVER MANY YEARS YEARS IN
WHICH COSTS FLUCTUATE QUITE A
BIT.
>> THOSE OVERRUNS, HOWEVER, ARE
EASIER TO UNDERSTAND AND
ULTIMATELY SWALLOW WHEN THEY
ARE ACCOMPANIED BY DETAILED
COSTS AND REASONS FOR THOSE
COSTS.
THIS IS THE CASE TONIGHT IN
PARTICULAR FOR FIVE AND SIX
RELATED TO THE GALLOP PARK
BRIDGE PROJECT.
I'D LIKE TO THANK STAFF FOR
PROVIDING THAT LEVEL OF DETAIL
AND TRANSPARENCY ON THOSE ITEMS
AND ULTIMATELY LOOK FORWARD TO
ENGAGING WITH STAFF AND COUNCIL
TO PLAN AND ESTIMATE REALISTIC
COSTS WHERE WE CAN FORWARD
THINKS COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
I'D LIKE TO SEE EIGHT
FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON THE CONSENT
AGENDA ALL AND THEY REPEAT IS
GOING TO SET THE AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF FIFTEEN CAA
OPPOSED THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF CAFFEINE EIGHT
IS APPROVED WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO SIX K-12 AND A
FOURTEEN CIA FIFTEEN RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES AGREEMENT CBRE FOR
BROKERAGE SERVICES FOR THE SALE
OF CITY OWNED REAL ESTATE.
THE PROPERTY COMMONLY REFERRED
TO AS DECLINES LAT AND 415 WEST
WASHINGTON AN APPROPRIATE
700000 DOLLARS MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF 15 COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK.
OH THANK YOU.
I UNDERSTAND TWO RESOLUTIONS
FROM TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
DIRECTED ADMINISTRATOR TO HONY
AND CITY STAFF TO THIS CONTRACT
TONIGHT I MANAGED TO READ UP
QUITE A BIT NOT A LOT OF THE
PUBLIC ITEMS FROM THE PAST FEW
YEARS ON THIS TOPIC FOR BOTH
OF THESE PROPERTIES.
BUT SINCE I WASN'T ON COUNCIL
LAST YEAR WHEN THESE
RESOLUTIONS CAME UP I WAS
HOPING ADMINISTRATOR TONY COULD
BRIEFLY ELABORATE ON THE PROS
AND CONS OF THIS PROPOSED
BROKERED REAL ESTATE
TRANSACTION WITH A COMMERCIAL
PROPERTY BROKER AS COMPARED TO
A MORE PUBLIC COMPETITIVE
BIDDING PROCESS THROUGH AN RFP
FOR EXAMPLE, THE CITY CONDUCTED
TWO SEPARATE PROCESSES ONE FOR
415 AND ONE FOR A CLIENT LOT.
WE DID USE AN RFP PROCESS FOR
BOTH.
THE FEELING WAS THAT HAVING A
BROKER WOULD BE BETTER SUITED
FOR THE KINDS OF TRANSACTIONS
THAT WE WERE TRYING TO GET DONE
IN THIS INSTANCE UNLIKE I'LL
SAY A TRADITIONAL REAL ESTATE
TRANSACTION BASED ON THE
COUNCIL'S POSITION, WE'RE NOT
SIMPLY LOOKING FOR THE HIGHEST
BIDDER.
IF WE WERE THEN WE MIGHT HAVE
DONE IT A LITTLE DIFFERENTLY.
COUNCIL HAS EXPRESSED SOME
SPECIFICITY IN WHAT THEY WANT
TO SEE, PARTICULARLY AT THE
TIME LOT.
SO THAT'S WHY WE WENT THROUGH
THE PROCESS ONCE WE WENT
THROUGH TWO SEPARATE PROCESSES
,CBRE EMERGED AS THE WINNER IN
BOTH AND SO TO BE MORE
EFFICIENT AND TO TRY TO SAVE
THE CITY MONEY WE ASK IF THEY
WOULD BE WILLING TO COMBINE IT
INTO A SINGLE CONTRACT WHICH
THEY AGREED TO DO.
>> THANK YOU.
AND ONE MORE QUICK QUESTION.
UM, HOW MANY POSSIBLE PROJECTS
EVALUATED BY CBRE DO YOU
ENVISION BRINGING TO COUNCIL
ONCE THAT EVALUATION PROCESS IS
COMPLETE FOR THE PROPERTIES
AGAIN, UNLIKE THE NORM WHERE
YOU WOULD BRING THE RECOMMENDED
PROJECT FOR COUNCIL
CONSIDERATION, THE
ADMINISTRATION IS ON RECORD AS
SAYING WE WILL BRING THE TOP
TWO TO THREE BIDS FOR THE
PROPERTY COUNCIL BECAUSE WE
EXPECT THEM TO BE DIFFERENT AND
THERE WILL BE SOME VARIETY IN
THE OPTIONS AVAILABLE TO US AND
THEN COUNCIL WOULD BE ABLE TO
GIVE THE ADMINISTRATOR ITS
POSITION AND ALLOW US TO THEN
ENTER INTO FINAL NEGOTIATIONS
FOR THE SALE.
>> THANK YOU VERY DENHA THANK
YOU.
>> I ALSO JUST HAD A QUESTION
ABOUT THE COST AND I'M KIND
OF ON ITS FACE.
SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND SEEMS
LIKE A LOT BUT I
US CONSIDERING
THE VALUE
OF A PROPERTY THIS IS
A FLAT RATE IT SEEMS AS OPPOSED
TO A PERCENTAGE OF THE VALUE
OF THE SALE.
DO YOU FEEL COMFORTABLE WITH
THE RATE THAT WE ARE RECEIVING
FOR THE SERVICES?
>> YES, IN THIS INSTANCE CBRE
ACTUALLY PROPOSED A PERCENT
OF SALE PRICING OPTION.
THEY DID NOT SUBMIT THE FLAT
RATE ONCE WE STARTED DOING SOME
SIMPLE MATH ON THE PERCENTAGE
DEPENDING ON HOW MUCH THE
PROPERTY SOLD FOR, THEY WOULD
END UP GETTING A LOT MORE THAN
FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
FOR THE CLIENT LOT AS AN
EXAMPLE WE WENT BACK TO THEM
AND ASK IF WE COULD NEGOTIATE
AND THEY WERE WILLING TO DO SO.
SO WE LANDED AT THE PRICES THAT
YOU SEE.
THE THIRD THING THAT DOES NEED
TO BE MENTIONED FOR THIS TO
WORK WE HAVE TO ACTUALLY MANAGE
THE CONTRACT AND WE INTEND TO
DO JUST THAT MEANING THERE'S
NOT GOING TO BE LONG GAPS
OF TIME WHERE WE'RE NOT SURE
WHAT THEY'RE DOING.
WE'RE WONDERING WHAT THEY'RE
DOING.
WE WILL HAVE A REGULAR CADENCE
THAT WILL INVOLVE MYSELF, THE
CFO, THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR.
WE WILL KNOW WHO IS INTERESTED
IN BOTH PARCELS.
WE'RE GOING TO KNOW WHAT THE
PRELIMINARY OFFERS ARE.
WE'RE GOING TO BE A PART OF THE
VETTING PROCESS.
WE'RE ALSO GOING TO INCLUDE A
REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE ADC.
SO WE'RE GOING TO PUSH TO MAKE
SURE IT HAPPENS WITHIN THE TIME
FRAME AND WE THINK UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES IT IS A
REASONABLE PRICE FOR THE WORK
THAT THEY WILL DO.
THANK YOU, BRIAN.
THANK YOU.
A LOT OF MY QUESTIONS HAVE
ALREADY BEEN COVERED BUT I DID
HAVE ONE ADDITIONAL ONE AND I
THINK THE ANSWER IS INHERENT IN
YOUR LAST SET OF COMMENTS.
BUT JUST TO PUT A FINER POINT
ON IT, THE FACT THAT WE ARE
GOING WITH A FLAT FEE RATHER
THAN A COMMISSION A COUPLE
OF FOLKS IN THE COMMUNITY HAVE
RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT WHERE
THEY GET PAID NO MATTER WHAT.
SO WHAT IF NOTHING ENDS UP
COMING TO US OR NOTHING OF TRUE
VALUE ENDS UP COMING TO US?
AND OBVIOUSLY THIS IS A BIG
FIRM WITH A REPUTATION.
>> BUT IF YOU COULD JUST KIND
OF SPEAK TO THAT A LITTLE BIT.
CERTAINLY IT IS INCUMBENT UPON
US TO MANAGE THE PROJECT GOING
FORWARD.
BUT CBRE HAS ACTUALLY
INTERNATIONAL REPUTATION FOR
WHAT THEY DO IN REGARDS TO THE
SCALE OF PROJECTS THEY
TYPICALLY HANDLE.
>> WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
CONSIDERED SMALL BUT WHAT WE
WERE STRUCK BY IS THE VAST
AMOUNT OF CONTACTS AND NETWORKS
THEY HAVE TO PUT THE PROPERTIES
IN PLAY AND TO INVOLVE US IN
HOW THAT HAPPENS.
SO WE'RE COMFORTABLE WITH THEM
AS THE VENDOR WE FEEL LIKE WE
WILL GET OPTIONS TO BRING TO
YOU TO DECIDE IN BOTH INSTANCES
AND WE BELIEVE THAT THIS CAN BE
ACCOMPLISHED WITH CLEARLY
WITHIN 18 MONTHS THE 450 WILL
PROBABLY BE THE MORE
CHALLENGING LOT PEOPLE WILL BE
LINED UP TO BUY KLEIN WE
ALREADY KNOW THAT.
>> SO OK, THANK YOU COUNCILMAN
ACKMANN.
>> I WAS WONDERING IF YOU COULD
HELP ME FURTHER UNDERSTAND THAT
I UNDERSTAND THAT WE HAVE TO
PAY HALF UP FRONT FOR BOTH.
SO WE'RE PAYING I THINK THREE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS AT THE
START AND THEN SIX HUNDRED
DOLLARS SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS TOTAL SORRY SEVEN.
SO 350 IS THAT TYPICAL OF THIS
KIND OF A STRUCTURE AND GOT I
GUESS MAYBE IT JUST GOES BACK
TO MY FEAR.
WHAT IF IT DOESN'T WORK OUT?
IT IS TYPICAL OF WHAT THE KIND
OF STRUCTURE THAT WE'RE DOING
AND AGAIN WE WENT TO THEM WITH
THE FLAT RATE THEY CAME TO US
WITH PERCENTAGES AND THE
PERCENTAGES FLUCTUATED IF THE
OTHER ENTITY ALSO HAD A BROKER
AND WE JUST WE WEREN'T
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT APPROACH
.
IS THERE SOME POSSIBILITY THAT
IT COULDN'T OR WOULDN'T WORK
OUT?
>> THERE'S ALWAYS THAT
POSSIBILITY BUT THE ODDS FAVOR
THE CITY HERE.
>> THE ASSET THAT WE'RE SELLING
THE LOCATION OF THE ASSETS THAT
WE'RE SELLING IF YOU LOOK
AROUND THE COUNTRY, INVESTMENTS
ARE OCCURRING WITHIN DOWNTOWN.
WE'VE BEEN ON THE RECORD THAT
WE WANT AND NEED HOUSING.
WE WANT AND NEED PLACEMAKING.
SO IF THAT'S WHAT WE WANT AND
WE DO HAVE TO PUT OURSELVES OUT
THERE AND GO GET IT AND THAT'S
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO.
THAT'S OUR TURN OUT.
SORRY MR. DE, YOU'RE STILL IN
THE HOT SEAT.
I'VE HEARD A LOT OF FEEDBACK.
THE CITY HAS STAFF CITY HAS
STAFFING.
WHY CAN'T THE CITY JUST MANAGE
THIS INTERNALLY?
AND I THINK YOU'VE TOUCHED ON
SOME OF THE FACTORS BUT I
WONDER IF YOU CAN MAYBE PROVIDE
YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU SAY THERE'S
GOING TO BE A LOT OF INTEREST
I'M NOT ASKING YOU TO QUANTIFY
THAT BUT IN TERMS OF THE
STAFFING INVOLVED TO DO THAT
FROM AN INTERNAL PERSPECTIVE
VERSUS PAYING SOMEBODY ELSE TO
DO IT A BROKER WHO DOES THAT
PROFESSIONAL CAN YOU MAYBE
CLARIFY THAT FOR PEOPLE WHO
DON'T UNDERSTAND THE BROKER
PROCESS?
THE BROKER PROCESS IS ACQUIRING
A THIRD PARTY WHO WILL ACT AS
THE CITY'S AGENT.
THEY WILL ASK US WHAT TYPES
OF POTENTIAL BUYERS ARE YOU
LOOKING FOR?
>> WHAT IS IT THAT YOU WOULD
WANT THEM TO DO?
>> WHAT ARE THE PARAMETERS?
WHAT KIND OF WHAT DOES
ENGAGEMENT LOOK LIKE SO WHILE I
UNDERSTAND THE PREMISE OF AN
INTERNAL PROCESS, DO WE HAVE
PEOPLE THAT WORK FOR THE CITY
THAT HAVE THE KNOWLEDGE TO
ACTUALLY CONDUCT A REAL ESTATE
TRANSACTION?
OF COURSE, BUT THEN SOMETHING
ELSE SUFFERS THAT PEOPLE ARE
ALREADY COMPLAINING ABOUT.
IF YOU'RE ALREADY COMPLAINING
ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
TAKES TOO LONG AND THIS TAKES
TOO LONG.
IT'S THE SAME PEOPLE THAT WOULD
BE DOING THE SAME WORK.
>> SO WE NEED THIS TO BE
EFFICIENT, TO BE CLEAN.
WE NEED THE REVENUE TO BE
GENERATED ESPECIALLY IN THE
CLIMATE THAT WE'RE IN AND WE'RE
GOING TO SOMEONE WITH A PROVEN
TRACK RECORD.
>> CBRE KNOWS HOW TO MOVE REAL
ESTATE.
>> IT'S WHAT THEY DO.
>> IF WE HAD A LOT MORE STAFF
MAYBE WE COULD DO IT
INTERNALLY.
WE JUST DON'T HAVE THE CAPACITY
TO DO THAT.
AND THE OTHER THINGS THAT THOSE
PEOPLE ARE BEING ASKED TO DO
AND I DO WANT TO MAKE ONE ONE
COMMENT ABOUT GIANT COMING IN.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
SOMEONE WITH HIS SKILL SET AND
EXPERIENCE CHOOSING TO COME
HERE.
>> BUT THE KLEIN LOT AND 415
ARE PROPERTIES WITH SOME
SENSITIVITY AROUND IT.
I'LL JUST PUT IT THAT WAY.
JOE GIANT HAS NO CLUE ABOUT
THAT.
IF IT'S JUST A MATTER GO GET AS
MUCH MONEY AS YOU CAN.
YEAH, WE COULD JUST GIVE IT TO
HIM AND HE COULD RUN OUT THERE
AND DO THAT.
BUT HE DOESN'T HAVE THE CONTEXT
THAT HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED
AROUND THE PROPERTIES WE HAVE
THAT.
SO HE WILL JOIN US AND BE PART
OF THE TEAM AND TOGETHER WE'LL
BRING HOME WHAT WE BELIEVE TO
BE A WINNING PRODUCT.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK YOU
FOR BEING SO THOUGHTFUL AND AND
APPROACHING US.
THESE ARE VALUABLE PROPERTIES
FOR THE CITY AND I'M GLAD TO
SEE WHERE WE'RE GOING TO SWING
FOR THE FENCES AND GET IT RIGHT
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED C8
RESOLUTION TO INCREASE
PURCHASING AUTHORITY ON FOUND
WITH ELEVEN VOTES WITH ELEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL SET
ASIDE ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE TO SATISFY THE
REQUIREMENT.
THANK RESOLUTION TO INCREASE
PURCHASING AUTHORITY OF THE
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT SEE A
WHOLE COMPANY FOR THE E MEDICAL
CENTER BRIDGE REHABILITATION
AND WIDENING PROJECT ONE POINT
SIX DOLLARS MILLION INCREASE
TOTAL CONTRACT ONE THREE ONE
THIRTEEN MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED
SEVEN THOUSAND EIGHT EIGHTY ONE
DOLLARS THIRTY THREE CENTS MOVE
BY GREG SECOND BY KRIMMER
HORNELL DISCUSSION OF C8 PLEASE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS I HAVE A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS WHICH I
THOUGHT THAT I SUBMITTED THIS
WEEKEND THAT THEY GOT CAUGHT IN
DRAFT SO MY APOLOGIES TO STAFF
I SENT IN AT SEVEN SO I'VE GOT
TWO PEOPLE HAVE HAD LOTS
OF TIME TO CONTEMPLATE THEM I
WONDER.
>> OH GOOD THERE YOU ARE NICK.
THANK ARE MR. HUTCHINSON.
SO I WAS HOPEFULLY YOU'VE SEEN
THESE ARE ANY OF THE DELAYS
THAT ARE THERE BECAUSE OF THE
WHITENING ESSENTIALLY.
TOM, ARE YOU AND SO IN TERMS
OF THOSE EXTRA COST, ARE THOSE
BEING SHARED EQUALLY WITH THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEMO WE
SAID FIFTY PERCENT IN REALITY
WE'RE GOING TO LOOK AT EVERY
ONE OF THOSE ITEMS AND WE WILL
SHARE THE COSTS WITH THE
UNIVERSITY BASED ON WHAT OUR
AGREEMENT AND SPLIT THEM UP FOR
COST SHARING NUMBERS.
BUT YES, THEY WILL BE PAYING
FOR A PORTION OF IT CERTAINLY
OK SINCE THEY'RE PAYING FOR THE
HUNDRED PERCENT FOR I GUESS I'M
HOPING THAT WE WILL SEE THAT
EQUITABLY AS PER THAT AGREEMENT
AND THEN THE THE MEMO NOTES
THAT WHEN THE BEAMS WERE
REMOVED DURING CONSTRUCTION
THEY WERE FOUND TO BE
DETERIORATED MORE THAN THOUGHT
BUT I SUPPOSE GOING THROUGH
A
SORT OF SCOPE OF SERVICES I SAW
THAT THAT FROM TWENTY TWENTY
ONE I SAW THAT YOU KNOW WE
ANTICIPATED IT WAS DLC
ANTICIPATED THAT YOU KNOW,
THERE WAS A POSSIBILITY THAT
THOSE BEAMS MIGHT BE
DETERIORATED.
>> WE GOT DOWN AND I WAS JUST
CURIOUS IN TERMS OF THAT WAS
THAT EXTRA TIME NOT FACTORED
INTO THE INTO THE WORK PLAN OR
WHY WAS THAT A PART OF THE
DELAY PROCESS YET WE DID PLAN
TO REPLACE SOME BEAMS AND WE
INCLUDED THOSE IN THE BID IN
THE CONTRACT THAT THERE WERE
SOME BEAMS THAT WE THOUGHT WE
WERE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
SALVAGE.
IT TURNED OUT THAT THERE WAS
ONE ADDITIONAL BEAM THAT WE HAD
TO ORDER A NEW BEAM FOR ONCE WE
REMOVED IT.
WE FOUND IT WAS MORE
DETERIORATED THAN IT NEEDED TO
BE AND SO THAT ONE EXTRA BEAM
THAT WE NEEDED TO ORDER THE
LEAD TIME FOR THAT WAS
SUBSTANTIAL.
SO BUT WE DIDN'T KNOW THAT IT
WAS GOING TO BE NEEDED TO BE
FABRICATED UNTIL WE REMOVED IT
.
GOT IT.
GREAT.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSE
IS APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COULSTON COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING WHAT NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP AN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE TIME
CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE REMARKS AND
CEDE THE FLOOR PUBLICLY NO ONE
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION
ONE ONE NINE FIVE PUBLIC MARKET
ADVISORY COMMISSION TO CHAPTER
EIGHT ORGANIZATION OF BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS OF TITLE ONE
MINISTRATION OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF NRA.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
HERE?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ON LINE
FOR THIS HEARING
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO.
TWO RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
ROBERTSON HOMES ANNEXATION SIX
POINT THREE ACRES TWO FIVE FIVE
THREE ONE FIVE THREE SEVEN ONE
SALE CHURCH ROAD TWO ONE EIGHT
ZERO ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
ADAM SAVAGE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> HI, THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
AGAIN CALLING FROM THE FOURTH
WARD.
I LIVE IN THE NEARBY DICKIN
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ATTENDED THE
INITIAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING
FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT A YEAR OR
SO AGO.
I SUPPORT THIS DEVELOPMENT THE
SCALE OF THIS NEW NEIGHBORHOOD
IS ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE FOR THE
AREA.
IT ADDS MUCH NEEDED HOMES IN AN
AREA THAT IS CLOSE TO DAILY
NEEDS JOBS, SCHOOLS AND SEVERAL
BUS ROUTES.
THE VITALITY ADDED TO THE MAIN
TOWN CHURCH AND AN AREA BETWEEN
THIS AND THE FORTHCOMING
ABDERRAHMANE DEVELOPMENT CAN
ONLY MAKE THIS SIDE OF TOWN A
BETTER PLACE TO LIVE.
I LOOK FORWARD TO NEW NEIGHBORS
ON MY SIDE OF TOWN.
PLEASE APPROVE THIS ANNEXATION.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE.
>> THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
THREE RESOLUTION TO VACATE
KORNBLATT CORNWELL PLACE
RELEASE UTILITY EASEMENTS,
RELEASED DUCT BANK AGREEMENTS
AND APPROVE UTILITIES TRANSFER
AGREEMENT WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE, NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MINUTES OF FEBRUARY
3RD.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE EMOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MINUTES
MOVE BY COUNSEL MR. WATSON
SECONDED BY COUNSEL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ON FAVOR OF POST
MINUTES ARE APPROVED B WANT AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
ONE NINE FIVE PUBLIC MARKET
ADVISORY COMMISSION TO CHAPTER
EIGHT ORGANIZATION OF BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS OF TITLE ONE
ADMINISTRATION OF ANN ARBOR
CITY CODE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE1 ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED DZOGCHEN RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE ROBERTSON HOMES
ANNEXATION SIX POINT THREE
ACRES TWO FIVE FIVE THREE ONE
FIVE THREE SEVEN ONE SAYO
CHURCH ROAD AND TWO ONE EIGHT
ZERO ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD MOVE
BY COUNCILMAN REDISH SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER KARZAI HAD ONE
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D1 COUNCIL
BRITISH.
THIS ANNEXATION OF SIX POINT
THREE ACRES AT CYO CHURCH IN
ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD.
THESE ACRES CURRENTLY ARE
LOCATED IN PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP
AND BRING THEM INTO THE CITY
WILL SUPPORT AN INFILL PROJECT
TO PROVIDE UP TO 75 TOWNHOMES
ATTACHED SINGLE FAMILY HOMES TO
THE CITY.
THIS IS A TYPE OF HOUSING.
WE JUST DON'T HAVE ENOUGH OF .
IT MAKES HOMEOWNERSHIP AN
OPTION FOR PEOPLE SEARCHING FOR
SOMETHING AROUND THE MEDIAN
HOME PRICE IN ANN ARBOR WHICH
IS HOLD YOUR BREATH OVER HALF A
MILLION DOLLARS.
>> I KNOW THAT SOUNDS HIGH BUT
THERE ARE ACTUALLY VERY FEW
OFFERINGS AT THAT LEVEL.
SO MUCH OF OUR HOUSING SUPPLY
IS WAY MORE THAN THAT.
SO THESE HOMES ARE NEEDED
TONIGHT.
WE ARE NOT APPROVING THAT
PROJECT.
I'M JUST GIVING YOU A TASTE AS
OUR CALLER JUST DID OF WHAT
THIS WILL BE FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
BECAUSE THE PROPERTY IS WITHIN
THE CITY'S WATER AND SEWER
SERVICE AREA AND THE PROPOSED
USE IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
ADJACENT ZONING LAND USE AND
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO PLEASE JOIN ME IN VOTING
YES.
>> COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN.
YEAH, THAT'S PURSELL IS JUST
DOWN IT'S IN WARD FOUR.
WELL I GUESS IT SOON WILL BE IN
WARD FOR IF WE APPROVE THIS
JUST DOWN THE STREET FROM BOTH
COUNCIL MEMBER IA AND ME AND I
THINK IT'S PRIMARILY BEEN USED
AS AN OCCASIONAL FOOTBALL
PARKING.
>> HOW MANY HOME GAMES DO WE
HAVE HERE TONIGHT ANYWAY?
SORRY.
SO MAYBE NOT THE BEST LAND USE
AND YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK
MAYBE MANY RESIDENTS KNOW ABOUT
THESE TOWNSHIP ISLANDS THAT WE
HAVE THAT YOU THINK THAT YOU'RE
IN ANN ARBOR BUT OFFICIALLY
IT'S REALLY NOT PART OF THE
CITY.
AND SO I'M ALWAYS EXCITED TO
BRING THESE IN ESPECIALLY ONE
LIKE THIS THAT'S COMPLETELY
SURROUNDED BY OTHER NO
PROPERTY.
SO LOOKING FORWARD TO WELCOMING
IT TO WORD FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION WELFARE OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED SEE WANT AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE ZONING REZONING
OF ONE POINT ONE FIVE ACRES
FROM TDP TOWNSHIP TO PUDI
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT FIKRI
WEIGH THREE PUDI ZONING AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS ONE
ONE FOUR SIX S MAPLE ROAD MOVE
BUT CAN I SKIP I SKIPPED
SKIPPED YES TO MY APOLOGIES
RESOLUTION TO DC THANK YOU
EVERYONE DSU RESOLUTION TO
VACATE CORNE CORNWELL PLACE
RELEASE UTILITY EASEMENTS
RELEASE BANK AGREEMENTS AND
PROOF UTILITIES TRANSFER
AGREEMENT WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN MUBI COUNCIL MEMBER
SECOND BY COUNCILOR MARKAZI HAD
ONE DISCUSSION PLEASE A.D.S TO
COUNCIL BRITISH SO THIS
RESOLUTION AFFECTS A STREET
VACATION FOR THE ENTIRETY
OF CORNWALL PLACE WHICH IS A
DEAD END STREET NEAR THE
HOSPITAL THAT RUNS BETWEEN
NORTH INGLES AND DOESN'T QUITE
REACH GLEN AVE. THAT'S THE
DEAD END PART.
>> IT WAS FIRST PLANTED IN 1848
AND IN ITS HEYDAY IT WAS LINED
WITH MANSIONS BUT NO LONGER.
THE UNIVERSITY REQUIRES THE
CITY TO VACATE THE STREET WHICH
TO BE EVENLY SPLIT BETWEEN THE
ADJACENT PARCELS ON EITHER SIDE
AND THIS STREET VACATION WILL
ALLOW FOR A CHILD CARE CENTER
TO TO SERVE MICHIGAN MEDICINE
STAFF AMONG OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
THERE ARE, AS THE MAYOR
MENTIONED, PRIVATE UTILITIES IN
THE RIGHT OF WAY AND ALSO
PUBLIC SANITARY WATER AND
STORMWATER UTILITY MAINS THAT
CURRENTLY SERVE YOU AM OWNED
PARCELS ONLY AND THESE WILL BE
SURRENDERED TO THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN IF WE ARE TURNED
OVER TO THEM SURRENDERED ISN'T
THE RIGHT WORD IF WE VOTE FOR
THIS VACATION.
SO PLEASE DO FURTHER DISCUSSION
WELL IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
PROVED C ONE AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF ONE POINT ONE FIVE
ACRES FROM TDP TOWNSHIP SCPD
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT HICKORY WEIGH THREE
PUDI ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION ONE ONE FOUR SIX S
MAPLE ROAD MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISCECTOMY COUNTY MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
ONE COUNCILOR BRITISH.
I'M REALLY HAPPY TO BRING THIS
ONE TO THE TABLE THE THE
PROPOSED ONE ELEVEN FORTY SIX
SOUTH MAPLE WILL ADD A FOUR
STORY BUILDING PROVIDING THIRTY
NINE AFFORDABLE AFFORDABLE ONE
BEDROOM RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
>> THESE UNITS WILL HOUSE THOSE
EARNING UP TO 60 PERCENT OF THE
AREA MEDIAN INCOME ALSO THIRTY
PERCENT OF THEM WILL BE
RESERVED FOR SUPPORTIVE HOUSING
WHICH IS VERY IMPORTANT TO KEEP
PEOPLE IN THEIR HOMES.
THE DEVELOPMENT WILL BE MANAGED
BY AVALON HOUSING ALONGSIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPLEXES
HICKORY WAY ONE AND TWO.
SO THIS WILL BE HICKORY WITH
THREE COUNCIL AND NEXT THE
PARCEL
FROM CYO TOWNSHIP BACK
IN NOVEMBER LAST NOVEMBER BUT
REZONING IS NOT AUTOMATIC UPON
ANNEXATION ANNEXATION.
SO TONIGHT WE'RE JUST MOVING
THIS TO SECOND READING UPON
SECOND READING WE WILL SEE A
SITE PLAN.
I WANT TO REMIND YOU THAT A
PETITION TO REZONE TO PUDI
NEEDS TO SATISFY EIGHT CRITERIA
AND BECAUSE THESE ARE REALLY
EXCITING I'M GOING TO VERY
QUICKLY REVIEW THEM OR REVIEW
AS MANY AS I CAN GET THROUGH SO
THIS PROJECT MORE THAN MEETS
THE FIRST CRITERIA FOR A PD
WHICH IS THAT IT MUST HAVE A
BENEFICIAL EFFECT FOR THE CITY.
>> AS WE KNOW HOMELESSNESS AND
HOMELESSNESS IS ON THE INCREASE
AND HOUSING IS INCREASINGLY
UNAFFORDABLE.
SO THIS IS 100 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT AND
IT'S GOING TO BE 100 PERCENT
ELECTRIC MEETING NATIONAL GREEN
BUILDING STANDARDS.
>> THIS BENEFICIAL EFFECT COULD
NOT BE ACHIEVED UNDER ANY OTHER
ZONING CLASSIFICATION AND IN
FACT WE'RE GETTING MORE OPEN
SPACE BY ZONING IT PUDI THAN WE
WOULD IF WE ZONED IT ARE FOR E
WHICH WOULD BE THE CLOSEST
COMPARABLE THE PROJECT SITE IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE ZONING IS
ADJACENT TO ADJACENT TO IT AND
ALSO IT IT CONFORMS WITH THE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
THAT THAT EXISTS THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
PROVIDE SUFFICIENT
JUSTIFICATION AND PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS TO MONITOR THE
BENEFITS THAT IS THE
AFFORDABILITY BENEFITS AND THE
ELECTRIFICATION BENEFITS.
THERE ARE TOO MANY PARKING
SPACES ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
PLACE WHICH IS GREATLY REDUCED
FROM WHAT IT INITIALLY CAME IN
AT AND WHICH JUST SATISFIES THE
MINIMUM FOR MR. HOUSING CREDITS
.
>> AND SO YOU KIND OF HAVE TO
HAVE SOME PARKING.
THERE WILL BE MINIMAL
DISTURBANCE IN NATURAL FEATURES
AND THAT WILL BE MITIGATED
FURTHER DISCUSSION WILL FAVOR
OR OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT WITH NEW GENE
STRATEGIES AND SOLUTIONS LLC TO
COMPLETE AN ELECTRIC GRID ASSET
VALUATION OF MUNICIPAL
CAUSATION STUDY BY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
I AM SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
ONE AS MANY FOLKS KNOW THE
VENDOR NUGENT HAS REQUESTED A
POSTPONEMENT.
THEY DONE SO IN ORDER TO ENABLE
ONE OF THEIR SUBCONTRACTORS TO
AVOID A RECENTLY DISCOVERED
POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
NUGENT HAS EXPRESSED CONFIDENCE
THAT THIS MATTER CAN BE
RESOLVED SHORTLY AND AMICABLY
IN THAT LIGHT I'D BE GRATEFUL
FOR A MOTION TO POSTPONE THIS
MATTER UNTIL OUR NEXT MEETING
BY COUNCIL MODISH SECOND
ACCOUNT NO DENHA DISCUSSION
OF THE POSTPONEMENT BE RUBRICS
.
YEAH I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK
SOME SILVER FOX SPOKE AROUND
PUBLIC COMMENT.
I DO THINK IT IS FORTUITOUS
THAT THIS HAS BEEN POSTPONED.
I WAS PREPARED TO VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THIS THE LAST TIME IT CAME
TO US BUT WE NEEDED TO POSTPONE
BECAUSE THERE WASN'T YET
COMMUNITY SUPPORT FOR THIS
PROPOSAL.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT IS
INCUMBENT UPON US TO WE MUST
RECOGNIZE THAT THAT THE
ENVIRONMENT HAS SHIFTED.
WE ARE NOT DEALING WITH
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS THIS
ADMINISTRATION IS NOT FOLLOWING
IT PAST PLAYBOOKS AND WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS
OF THAT ARE GOING TO BE ON OUR
COMMUNITY.
WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT THIS
ADMINISTRATION IS GOING AFTER
THE MOST VULNERABLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT IS GOING AFTER
OUR PRIORITIES CLIMATE SO MANY
MORE THINGS RIGHT.
BUT THE IMPLICATIONS AND WHAT
THAT MIGHT MEAN FOR OUR BUDGET
ARE YET UNKNOWN AND THE STRAINS
THAT THAT MIGHT HAVE ON OUR
BUDGET ARE YET UNKNOWN AND SO I
THINK THAT HAVING A LITTLE BIT
OF TIME TO BE ABLE TO
CONTEMPLATE JUST A LITTLE BIT
LONGER AND SEE WHAT THAT
HORIZON MIGHT LOOK LIKE IS
HELPFUL FOR US BECAUSE I THINK
WHAT WE'RE HEARING FROM
ADVOCATES IS IT'S SOMEWHAT OF A
FOREGONE SOLUTIA DECISION IN
TERMS OF WHEN WE GET THIS
REPORT THERE'S A DESIRE TO GO
TO THE VOTERS REGARDLESS
OF WHAT IT SAYS.
AND SO YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IF WE
HAVE A PHASE TWO STUDY WE'RE
WE'RE READY TO ACT UPON THAT
THAT WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO ACT
UPON IT AND THAT WE WANT TO BE
IN A TIME WHERE WE HAVE THE
ABILITY TO FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE POSTPONEMENT OR IN FAVOR
OR OPPOSED TO POSTPONEMENT IS
APPROVED IN D.C. TO RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE CITY STAFF TO
PERFORM THE PRELIMINARY WORK
NECESSARY TO PUT THE QUESTION
OF THE ACQUISITION OF DTD
ELECTRIC COMPANY'S ASSETS TO A
VOTE OF THE PEOPLE AND PREPARE
FOR LITIGATION SHOULD THE
VOTERS AUTHORIZE SUCH
ACQUISITION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE DC TWO IN LIGHT OF THE
FACT THAT THIS RESOLUTION IS SO
CLOSELY CONNECTED WITH THE
STUDY DESCRIBED IN DC ONE AND
IN LIGHT OF THE FACT THAT DC
ONE HAS BEEN POSTPONED I'D
REQUEST A COUNCIL MEMBER MOVE
TO POSTPONE DC TWO TO OUR NEXT
MEETING BY COUNCILOR JESSICA MY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
POSTPONEMENT COUNCILOR BRITISH
I MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO ASK US I
WANTED TO CLARIFY SOMETHING
ABOUT THE PROCEDURE THAT IS
OUTLINED HERE BUT IF WE'RE
DISCUSSING ONLY THE
POSTPONEMENT THAT WOULD BE
INCORRECT TO RAISE AT THIS TIME
IT WOULD BE OFF KEY.
OK THEN I WILL WRITE A NOTE TO
MY FRIENDS IN LEGAL FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE POSTPONEMENT
ALL IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
POSTPONED DC THREE RESOLUTION
DIRECTING ENHANCED ENFORCEMENT
OF BICYCLE LANE ORDINANCES AND
IDENTIFICATION OF ENGINEERING
SOLUTIONS TO PREVENT
OBSTRUCTION OF DESIGNATED
BICYCLE LANES MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN SECONDARY
COUNCIL QUENELLE DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC THREE COUNCIL
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SO I THINK AT THIS POINT YOU
EVERYBODY AT THIS TABLE KNOWS
THAT IT'S ILLEGAL TO PARK
VEHICLES OR LEAVE TRASH BINS OR
OTHER STATIONARY OBJECTS AND
BIKE LANES.
BUT AS WAS SAID IN PUBLIC
COMMENT AND WE'VE HEARD HERE
DURING MANY OTHER PREVIOUS
PUBLIC COMMENT TIMES THAT
ENFORCEMENT IS LARGELY
REACTIVE.
IT'S BASED ON PEOPLE CALLING IN
COMPLAINTS AND THERE ARE TWO
ISSUES THAT ONE THE NATURE
OF THE VIOLATION IS OFTEN
TRANSITORY ENOUGH THAT THAT
PERSON CANNOT BE SIGHTED OR
EVEN WARNED.
SECOND, WE SEE JUST PATTERNS
OF BLATANT DISREGARD IN CERTAIN
AREAS THAT TO ME SIGNALS PEOPLE
ARE AWARE THAT THEY CANNOT PARK
THERE AND THEY'RE DOING SO
ANYWAY BECAUSE IT'S BECOME JUST
DE FACTO ACCEPTED.
AND YOU KNOW, IF YOU SPEND ANY
TIME BIKING AROUND THE CITY,
YOU KNOW THESE AREAS IT'S
CONSTANTLY ON MAIN STREET AS
YOU'RE COMING INTO DOWNTOWN
FROM STADIUM.
>> IT'S A DIVISION BETWEEN HILL
AND HOOVER AND LIKE I SAID JUST
ROWS OF CARS PARKED THERE.
YOU KNOW, I'VE ALSO HEARD FROM
RESIDENTS HAVE GOTTEN INTO
ALTERCATIONS BECAUSE INSTEAD
OF DEALING WITH THE FRUSTRATING
SITUATION OF CALLING THE
NON-EMERGENCY NUMBER AND
GETTING VOICEMAIL OR BEING
OUTSIDE OF HOURS, THEY'VE TAKEN
IT UPON THEMSELVES TO INTERACT
WITH A PERSON AND THAT
SOMETIMES LED TO CONFLICT THAT
YOU REALLY WOULDN'T WANT TO
HAVE WITH OTHER PEOPLE AND
PUTTING KIND OF PEOPLE INTO
DANGER.
SO WHAT THIS IS ASKING IS FOR
THE CITY TO COME UP WITH A PLAN
FOR A MORE PROACTIVE
ENFORCEMENT.
WE KNOW THAT WE WILL NEVER HAVE
THE AMOUNT OF RESOURCES TO YOU
BLANKET THE CITY WITH EVERY
VIOLATION.
WHAT THIS IS REALLY ASKING FOR
IS A FOCUSED EFFORT AND SOME
OF THE AREAS THAT ARE MOST
EGREGIOUS SO THAT PEOPLE, YOU
KNOW, GET THEIR HEADS THAT IF
THEY DO THIS THEY'RE GOING TO
BE TICKETED AND IT'S NOT
ILLEGAL.
SO THE DESPERATE ENFORCEMENT
STRATEGY IS FOR SOME TRACKING
METRICS SO THAT WE CAN MONITOR
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS
PUBLIC EDUCATION AND OUTREACH
PLAN AS WELL AS QUARTERLY
REPORTS SO THAT WE CAN GET A
SENSE OF HOW EFFECTIVE THIS IS
BEING AND PERHAPS MOST
IMPORTANTLY, EVEN THOUGH MAYBE
IT TAKES UP A RELATIVELY SMALL
PORTION OF THE RESOLUTION TEXT,
I WOULD HOPE THAT ULTIMATELY WE
CAN IDENTIFY ENGINEERING
SOLUTIONS THAT JUST STOP PEOPLE
FROM DOING BEHAVIOR THAT THEY
SHOULDN'T BE DOING.
SO THAT'S THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS, THANK YOU.
THANKS TO COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN
FOR LEADING THE CHARGE ON THIS
ONE.
I WAS SPEAKING WITH THE INTERIM
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
LEAGUE OF MICHIGAN BICYCLISTS
TODAY AND TALKING BROUGHT THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT WE WERE WE
ARE WORKING ON AND HE JUST
ASKED ME TO TO SHARE A STORY
WITH ALL OF YOU ABOUT WE ALL
KNOW THAT THE IMPORTANCE
OF THIS BUT SOMETIMES IT CAN
FEEL LIKE WHAT'S THE BIG DEAL,
YOU KNOW, TRYING TO GO AROUND A
AN OBSTRUCTION AND IN THE BIKE
LANE AND HE JUST REMINDED ME
OF A STORY FROM 2022 IN CHICAGO
WHERE A MOM WAS RIDING WITH HER
THREE YEAR OLD IN A IN A
CARRIER BEHIND THE BIKE AND
THAT'S MOM JUST TRIED TO
SQUEEZE AROUND A UTILITY TRUCK
THAT WAS PARKED IN THE BIKE
LANE THERE AND A SEMI WAS
PULLING AWAY AT THE SAME TIME
WAS IN THAT LANE AND THE THE
CHILD THE THREE YEAR OLD CHILD
IN THAT CHILD CARRIER WAS
KILLED.
>> SO YOU KNOW, THERE'S REAL
HUMAN CONSEQUENCES TO DESIGNING
FACILITIES AND THEN NOT HAVING
THEM WORK AND AND HAVING TO
HAVE PEOPLE MAKE SORT OF SPLIT
DECISIONS AND QUICK DECISIONS.
SO I'M THANKFUL THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT THESE
FACILITIES WORK FOR US ALL THE
TIME AND FOR EVERYBODY WHO'S
USING THEM ALSO EMBRAER.
THANK YOU.
THANKS TO MY COLLEAGUES FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
I CERTAINLY HAVE HEARD FROM
RESIDENTS OF A FOR SOME OF OUR
MORE ACTIVE FOLKS IN THE
COMMUNITY AND THE BIKING
COMMUNITY HOW FRUSTRATING IT'S
BEEN TO HAVE FACILITIES BUILT
AND THEN HAVE THEM BE
INACCESSIBLE AND WE CAN'T BE A
BIKE FRIENDLY CITY IF WE'RE
BUILDING BIKE LANES AND THEN
ALLOWING THEM TO BE BLOCKED ALL
THE TIME BY CARS AND TRASH BINS
AND WHATNOT
.
THIS IS, YOU KNOW, OUR BIKE
LANES ARE REALLY IMPORTANT FOR
A NUMBER OF REASONS.
THEY'RE IMPORTANT TO OUR OUR
VISION ZERO TO OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLAN.
THEY'RE IMPORTANT TO OUR
CLIMATE ACTION PLAN AND I
APPRECIATE THAT THIS IS BEING
BROUGHT FORWARD, THAT IT'S DATA
DRIVEN AND I I'M REALLY HOPEFUL
THAT IT'LL MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER ALSO
I JUST WANTED TO DRAW ATTENTION
TO THE LAST BULLET POINT AND A
RESOLVE CLAUSE ABOUT THE PUBLIC
EDUCATION AND OUTREACH PLAN
PLAN TO PROMOTE AWARENESS.
AND YOU KNOW, I JUST WANTED TO
HEARKEN BACK TO A TIME WHERE
ANN ARBOR DID A LOT OF THAT
ENGAGEMENT AROUND RFP
COMPLIANCE AND STOPPING AT
CROSSWALKS AND I REALLY THINK
OUR CITY SAW THOSE EFFORTS BEAR
A LOT OF FRUIT.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY THE
OUTREACH AND ENGAGEMENT
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT'S COMBINED
WITH ENFORCEMENT, IT CAN CHANGE
BEHAVIOR.
I THINK AT ONE POINT WHEN WE
MEASURED OUR RFP STOPPING
COMPLIANCE WAS ACTUALLY VERY
HIGH COMPARED TO OTHER CITIES.
SO I THINK I THINK THIS IS GOOD
AND I APPRECIATE MY COLLEAGUES
BRINGING THIS FORWARD BUT I
WANTED TO LET PEOPLE KNOW WE
HAVE SOME EXPERIENCE IN THE
PAST WHERE THE EDUCATION DID
CHANGE BEHAVIOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED D.C. FOR
RESOLUTION TO RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF ISSUANCE
OF DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT LIQUOR LICENSE TO
RECESS CAFE LLC MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC FOR COUNCIL BRITISH.
THIS IS A PROPOSAL FOR A
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT LICENSE
WHICH STATE LAW ALLOWS US TO
GRANT TO PUBLIC ISTAT
ESTABLISHMENTS FOR DINING
ENTERTAINMENT OR RECREATION AS
LONG AS THEY HAVE A SEATING
CAPACITY OF MORE THAN A THIRD
OF THIRTY FIVE PERSONS OR MORE
AND THEY REHABBER RESTORE OUR
BUILDING NOW RECESS WHICH WILL
BE AT TWO 08 S ASHLEY STREET IF
WE APPROVE THIS MEETS THOSE
REQUIREMENTS AND BRING
SOMETHING REALLY UNUSUAL TO THE
CITY WHICH IS A KID FRIENDLY
PLACE FOR ADULTS AND KIDS TO
HANG OUT AND MEET FRIENDS OVER
SNACKS, BEER, WINE, SPIRITS OR
NONALCOHOLIC DRINKS IT IS ALSO
GOING TO BE A COMMUNITY
GATHERING SPACE THAT YOU CAN
RESERVE IN ADVANCE NOW ADULTS
ARE NOT OBLIGED TO BRING A KID
BUT KIDS ARE OBLIGED TO BRING
IN ADULTS.
SO PLEASE LET'S DO THE
EDUCATION ON THAT.
THIS WILL BE REALLY A UNIQUE
ADDITION TO AN ARBOR'S
INCREASINGLY DIVERSE AND RICH
CAFE SCENE.
IT'S ALSO RESPONSIVE TO THE
LARGER PROBLEM OF ISOLATION FOR
PARENTS OF YOUNG CHILDREN THAT
SURVEYS IN THE US STARTED
PAYING ATTENTION TO IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND SO I LOVE THIS
IDEA AND WE WERE SO EXCITED TO
OFFER THE LIQUOR COMMISSION.
WE HAVE RAUCOUS MEETINGS
BECAUSE PEOPLE HAVE GREAT IDEAS
AND THIS IS ONE DOWNSIZER
QUENELLE.
I TOO AM VERY EXCITED AND YOU
TOUCHED BRIEFLY ON SOMETHING
THAT I WAS GOING TO BRING UP IS
THAT WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMAKING WE
TALK ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF THIRD SPACES AND THIS IS ONE
THAT IS FAMILY FRIENDLY FILLS A
NICHE WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY AND
A REAL NEED FOR PARENTS WITH
YOUNG KIDS TO BE ABLE TO GET
OUT OF THE HOUSE AND TO
CONGREGATE WITH OTHER ADULTS
AND NOT FEEL LIKE YOU'RE IN THE
MIDDLE OF A JUNGLE GYM.
I WOULD HAVE LOVED TO HAVE THIS
PLACE WHEN MY KIDS WERE YOUNGER
BECAUSE IT'S ANOTHER CONNECTION
TO OTHER ADULTS AND BEING A
PARENT TO YOUNG KIDS CAN BE
REALLY ISOLATING.
>> SO AND IT'S GOING TO BE
RIGHT AROUND THE CORNER FROM
THE ART CENTER AND IS JOINING
THE GREAT BUSINESSES IN WARD
FIVE.
SO I'M I'M REALLY ENTHUSIASTIC
ABOUT THIS AND I APPRECIATE MY
COLLEAGUES SUPPORT FOR IT.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER I DENHA
THANKS VERY BRIEFLY SIMPLY
BECAUSE A COUNCIL MEMBER JUST
SAID MOST OF WHAT I WANTED TO
SAY.
I ALSO JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT
THAT THIS PROPOSAL IS BEING
BROUGHT TO US BY A DOWNTOWN
RESIDENT WHO REALLY RECOGNIZED,
YOU KNOW, THIS NEED THIS THING
THAT SHE WISHED EXISTED IN OUR
EXISTING IN OUR DOWNTOWN AND
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO
CAPITALIZE ON A REALLY GOOD
IDEA THAT WILL ADD TO THE VALUE
OF OUR DOWNTOWN.
JUST BRIEFLY READING FROM THE
PERSONAL STATEMENT IN HER
APPLICATION, SHE SAID ANN ARBOR
IS AN INCREDIBLY IS INCREDIBLY
FAMILY FRIENDLY AS A COMMUNITY
.
BUT OUR DOWNTOWN IS IN NEED
OF MORE BUSINESSES THAT CATER
TO THE FAMILIES THAT MAKE UP
OUR COMMUNITY.
RECESS OFFERS A THIRD SPACE FOR
WORKING FAMILIES A PLACE IN THE
HEART OF DOWNTOWN WHERE PARENTS
ARE ABLE TO GET ADDITIONAL WORK
DONE ON A SNOW DAY SOMEWHERE
THEY CAN MEET UP WITH FRIENDS
WITHOUT HAVING TO FIND CHILD
CARE.
AND SO I JUST THINK IT'S A
REALLY COOL OPPORTUNITY AND ONE
OF THE OTHER THINGS I WILL NOTE
IS THEY ARE NOT OPEN LATE AND
WE ASKED ABOUT THAT AND SHE
SAID THAT'S JUST NOT OUR VIBE.
WE ARE WE'RE UP LATE.
WE'RE A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE CAN
CAN BRING THEIR KIDS AND WHERE
THEY CAN HANG OUT AND WHERE
THEY CAN WORK.
BUT WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE THE
PLACE WHERE YOU'RE STILL
HANGING OUT AND DRINKING AT
NINE O'CLOCK AT NIGHT.
THIS IS A DAYTIME PLACE FOR
FOLKS TO HANG OUT UNTIL SEVEN
O'CLOCK.
SO I THINK IT'S A REALLY COOL
IDEA AND I WISH THEM ALL THE
SUCCESS.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI I DON'T
I JUST WANT TO GO REALLY BAD
LIKE RIGHT.
THAT'S ALL REALLY, REALLY WANT
TO SAY NO.
I REMEMBER READING AN ARTICLE
ABOUT HOW PLACES LIKE THIS
EXIST IN LIKE DENMARK AND
SWEDEN AND THINKING LIKE I
CAN'T WAIT.
I HOPE WE GET SOMETHING LIKE
THIS.
>> SO THIS IS THIS IS REALLY
AWESOME.
CAN'T WAIT TO GO FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF LABOR OPPOSED IT
TOO IS APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE THE CLOTHES THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY IT IS DIFFICULT TO FOLLOW
A FAMILY FRIENDLY LIQUOR
ESTABLISHMENT BUT YES I WOULD
LIKE TO SEQUESTER SESSION.
THERE WON'T BE UNDER NCCL
FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX EIGHT
SECTION EIGHT ONE EIGHT TO
DISCUSS THE PRIVILEGED AND
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO PROVIDED TO
COUNSEL ON FEBRUARY 15TH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE IF MOST I'M PLEASED
TO GO INTO CLOSED SESSION ON
THAT BASIS MOVE BY ACCOUNTS
MCCONNELL SECOND MY COUNSEL
BRIGGS DISCUSSION ROLL CALL
THOUGH PLEASE START COUNCIL
MEMBER ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON YES COUNCILMAN MALIK YES
ALTIMARI DENHA YES YES MAYOR
TAYLOR YES COUNCILOR ER YES
SIR.
YES SIR.
BRIGGS YES.
CUSTOMER CORNELL YES.
CUSTOMER DISH YES CUSTOMER YES.
>> MOTION CARRIES UH
WE ARE
BACK AFTER CLOSED SESSION MADE
EMOTIONAL PLEAS TO GO BACK INTO
OPEN SESSION MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK DISCUSSION
IN FAVOR POSED.
>> WE ARE BACK IN OPEN SESSION.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MOVE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCILOR DECISION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED THE CLERK
SUPPORT IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
>> ALAS, IN THE ABSENCE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW MAY
HAVE A MOTION TO JERDE PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN PRONOUNCING
MY COUNCILMAN BRIGGS DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED ADJOURNED